Letter from Our CEO (continued) means of bridging the gap between the digital haves and have-nots. Today, CoDi is enabling more than 5.5 million digital clients to send invoices and payments using QR codes on their phones at no cost. Citibanamex is one of the leading banks behind this innovative initiative and has had a leadership role since its inception. Were also continuing to support entre-preneurs through efforts like Scaling Enterprise, a $100 million loan guarantee facility and joint effort with the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (the former OPIC) and the Ford Foundation. Scaling Enterprise provides early-stage financing in local currency to companies that expand access to products and services for low-income communities in emerging markets. To complement our lending activities, our new $150 million Citi Impact Fund will make equity invest-ments in socially oriented startups and companies. And we continue to champion philan-thropic causes to increase economic opportunity. An urgent need is to help narrow the gap between the skills and knowledge many young people have and what they will need in order to succeed in this century. Thats why one of our largest philanthropic focus areas is work-force development. Last year, the Citi Foundation completed its three-year, $100 million Pathways to Progress initiative to invest in preparing youth for 21st century jobs, and well soon expand that program with an additional new commitment. Last year, Citi and the Citi Foundation gave $147 million in grants and charitable contributions. I know that these efforts will continue and will even accelerate as will the time and dedication that my Citi colleagues pledge to supporting their communities. We have committed to build on the nearly 1 million hours of service contributed by Citi volun-teers in 2019, virtually and once we can safely re-engage with our communities. We also strongly believe that our most important impact comes from our core business activities, including the financ-ing of critical infrastructure, affordable housing, environmental finance and small business lending. The economic recovery will be further strengthened by institu-tions commitments to addressing an increasingly acute shortage of affordable housing. Last year, Citi provided more than $6 billion in loans for affordable housing projects in the U.S., making our firm the largest U.S. affordable housing lender for the 10th consecutive year. Its also my hope that one outcome of our present predicament will be an even deeper respect for science and a recogni-tion of the investments in technology we will need to make to help our world thrive in the years ahead. Innovation will be essential as we look to confront the many other challenges that critically impact us all chief among them, climate change. Our health, our economic success and our environment are all inextricably linked, which is why, despite the current challenges, we must sustain our efforts to fight climate change. In 2019, Citi exceeded our $100 billion goal to help reduce the impacts of climate change through environmental finance activities around the world more than four years ahead of schedule. Still, we know much remains to be done, quickly, and so we are as committed as ever to bringing our resources and capacity for innovation to bear as we seize the opportunity to even more effectively and creatively tackle this urgent challenge. Banks have a central role to play, both in helping people and communities through the current pandemic and in the ultimate recovery. At Citi, we will continue working with all of our clients and customers individuals, small businesses, companies and governments around the world to manage the business and economic fallout of this pandemic. We will provide the necessary support, credit and assis-tance programs that people, institutions and communities will need to rebuild. I write this letter with the utmost humility, as I know the work ahead will require even more focus, more dedication, more partnership and more commitment than at any time in recent memory. But we will use the lessons of the past and the depth of our partnerships to guide us. I have every confidence that, as a company and a society, we will emerge stronger and more committed to the collective good than ever before. I know our citizens, our companies and our governments are resolved to do nothing less. My colleagues at Citi and I are more than ready to help lead the way. Michael L. Corbat Chief Executive Officer 6business activities demand financial innovations that meet the needs of our clients and tackle some of societys greatest challenges a concept that is fundamental to our mission to enable growth and progress. Aligning with this mission requires that we not only pursue the opportunities presented but also that we understand the risks inherent in our financing decisions and our own operations. This dichotomy is best evidenced in our efforts to finance a sustainable economy while understanding and mitigating our environmental and social risk. We know we have a great deal more work to do in these and other efforts, as noted throughout this report in discussions of the management of our material ESG issues. Maintaining a Focus on Ethical Decision- Making & Responsible Business Practices Ethical business practices are central to the success of the entire financial services sector and are the foundation of all our activities at Citi. We place significant emphasis on understanding, improving and fully integrating ethical and responsible practices into every-thing we do. The Ethics and Culture section provides more detail on how we do this both our successes and where we see need for continued attention and improvement. ! ? Taking a Stand on Issues that Matter and Driving Solutions Companies are increasingly expected to leverage their corporate voices to benefit society. Like many of our corpo-rate peers, we have chosen to take a stand on a wide range of issues, includ-ing climate change, pay equity, immi-gration, racial equity and gun violence in the U.S. We have made statements in response to issues that matter to our employees, clients, investors and communities. Speaking out, however, is often just the first step. Where we can, we work to be part of the solutions to these very complex and pressing issues. Reporting Transparently and Learning Through Dialogue To successfully meet the expectations of our stakeholders, especially as the scope and pace of disclosure evolves, we need to both communicate what we are doing and engage in dialogue to understand what more can be done. We are committed to improving our reporting efforts and the way in which Recognition of Our Efforts In 2020, Citi placed seventh overall out of 300 firms and first in the finan-cial category in Newsweeks inaugural index of Americas Most Responsible Companies, a ranking of the countrys top-performing companies in the context of corporate social responsibility. The rankings were based on an independent survey of 6,500 U.S. citizens and an analysis of performance indicators included in external reporting. we engage stakeholders. For example, we have deepened our reporting on climate-related risks and opportunities as part of our responses to the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, including more information in this report as well as additional, stand-alone climate-related reporting. Catalyzing Innovation Through Strategic Philanthropy and Employee Engagement Citi and the Citi Foundation support a variety of philanthropic causes and, wherever possible, develop partnerships with community organizations that allow us to catalyze change through innovative and efficient solutions. In 2019, the Citi Foundation provided $76 million in grants that increase financial capability, promote job opportunities for youth and reimagine approaches to building economically vibrant communities. In addition, through Citi businesses around the world, Citi provided $70 million in charitable giving to causes that align with our mission of enabling growth and progress. We increase our positive impact in the community by encouraging our colleagues to lend their time and talent toward volunteer activities that complement our philanthropic giving. Our signature effort, Global Community Day, engaged more than 120,000 volun-teers in 2019, including Citi colleagues, alumni, clients, friends and families in more than 400 cities across 90 countries. We highlight examples of Citi and Citi Foundation philanthropy in the Inclusive and Resilient Communities section and provide more detail on how we engage our employees in volunteer activities in the Talent and Diversity section. 10Reporting on Climate Change The risks and opportunities connected to climate change affect many parts of our business. As such, there are multiple points of reference on our approach, results and challenges throughout this report. For example: Climate opportunities, and the role Citi plays in financing a low-carbon, climate-resilient future, are explored in more detail in the Environmental Finance section. Climate risk in transactions and clients a critical topic as it relates to our core business is considered through our ESRM Policy and broader climate risk analysis, as detailed in the ESRM section. Our operational impacts on the climate, from our direct operations to our supply chain, are explored in the Operations and Supply Chain section. The TCFD index highlights where climate-related content in response to the TCFDs recommendations can be found in this report. Citis Support for Climate Action Over the last few years, numerous climate reports, including those from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), as well as the Fourth National Climate Assessment from the U.S. Global Change Research Program, make clear that the world is rapidly warming, leading to changes in weather patterns, sea levels and terrestrial and ocean ecosystems. The impacts and costs of climate change are already affecting many industries and regions globally and are expected to further increase as the world continues to warm. The science on climate is clear, and the expectations of corporate and government action are only increasing. From youth-led climate marches and school strikes to investor proposals for climate-related disclosures, the pressure is mounting for companies like Citi to contribute to solutions. Tackling climate change requires a global energy transition, as well as sustainable urban and regional development. As a global bank, we have a meaningful role to play and are responding in several ways: through increased climate- related measurement and disclosure, enhanced Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) policies and reduc-tions in our own environmental footprint. We also are stress-testing our business and innovating our products and services accordingly. We demonstrate leadership by collabo-rating with other companies and orga-nizations to drive change. In 2019, for example, we worked with other banks and organizations within the shipping indus-try to develop and cosign the Poseidon Principles, a framework for lenders, lessors and financial guarantors to inte-grate climate considerations into lending decisions with international shipping clients. Learn more in the ESRM section. We also publish thought leadership content to stimulate dialogue and action. For example, the Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions (Citi GPS) report Energy Darwinism III: The Electrifying Path to Net Zero Carbon offers data and narrative regarding the transition toward renew-able energy and away from fossil-based energy sources and technologies such as coal and combustion engines. The report highlights some of the opportunities that arise from this transition and the risks of continued investment in the incumbent energy infrastructure. 2 Investing Initiative Scenario Analysis Pilot Citi is one of 17 international banks piloting the Paris Agreement Capital Transition Assessment (PACTA) methodology for climate scenario analysis of corporate lending portfolios, developed by the 2 Investing Initiative. This methodology allows banks to study the alignment of their corporate lending portfolios with different 2C and below benchmarks based on the assets, technologies, and capital expenditure and produc-tion plans of companies in their portfolios. 11Citi and the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Citi has long recognized the global challenge of climate change; we released our first Climate Change Position Statement in 2007. In 2017, our CEO signed a statement of support for the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, with the understanding that Citi needed to continue to build on its strong foun-dation of climate-related activity and disclosure. Our objective is to understand the potential financial risks to Citi, our clients and communities from climate change, how Citi and our clients may be contributing to climate change, and how we can help our clients transition to a low-carbon economy. We conducted a TCFD gap analysis and identified the climate scenario analy-sis recommendation as a key area of development for Citi and our sector. We collaborated with the UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) a global, UNprivate sector collaboration with more than 240 finance institutions as members and 15 other banks to International Climate Reporting Awards Citi was one of six global financial institutions awarded an International Climate Reporting Award for inno-vation and best practices. Citi was recognized for reporting related to climate risk assessment and risk management in our 2018 TCFD report. The awards were jointly organized by the French Environment and Energy Management Agency and the French Ministry for Ecological and Inclusive Transition. design a banking-sector climate scenario analysis pilot project. As part of this pilot, we looked at transition risk under 1.5C and 2C scenarios for our North American oil and gas exploration and production portfolio and our U.S. power portfolio, as well as physical risk under a 4C scenario for our U.S. power portfolio. In late 2018, we published our first TCFD report, Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future, in which we disclosed our TCFD implementation across the four pillars of Governance, Strategy, Risk Management and Metrics and Targets, including the results of our scenario analysis pilot project. Following the release of that report, we convened a half-day investor dialogue in February 2019 with Ceres, a climate- focused nonprofit organization, during which a group of institutional and ESG investors provided feedback on our TCFD implementation and disclosures to date. We learned that investors valued the level of transparency, effort and detail provided in our reporting, appreciated the standalone report and were interested in seeing TCFD references in financial reporting and our Proxy Statement. We elicited these investors feedback on a number of potential actions Citi could take on our TCFD journey, including: Continuing to enhance our climate risk governance Supplementing our scenario anal-ysis pilot work with a shorter-term climate stress test, given the lack of alignment between the shorter time horizon of loans and the longer time horizon of climate change scenarios Looking into third-party method-ologies, including the 2 Investing Initiatives PACTA tool and the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials, to analyze the alignment of our portfolio with the Paris Agreement goal to limit warming to well below 2C, and/or to measure the carbon associated with our loan portfolio Enhancing our approach to analyzing the climate risk of our clients in carbon-intensive sectors Providing more metrics and setting targets related to the carbon intensi-ty of our credit portfolios Conducting an assessment of physi-cal climate risk and risks to Citis own facilities, as a complement to our business continuity planning Collaborating with others to nor-malize climate disclosure, further developing and standardizing climate scenario analysis and reporting, and disclosing our learnings as we go With feedback from our investors on how we might prioritize these numerous potential next steps, along with ongoing conversations with regulators and our lessons learned from our first phase of implementation, in 2019 we embarked on phase two of our TCFD efforts. Our 2020 TCFD implementation plan includes activities across the following three integrated pillars and builds in opportunities for investor feedback, peer collaboration and quick learning so that we can course correct as needed: 1. Risk Policies Integrating climate risk further into Citis risk manage-ment approach; reviewing and updating our ESRM Policy, including Sector Standards, to ensure that our engagements with client sectors are guided by specific requirements for higher-risk sectors, such as coal mining and coal-fired power generation 2. Climate Scenario Analysis Utilizing climate scenario analysis to help understand differentiated client impacts (or resilience) to stresses from physical or transition climate risk 3. Carbon Measurement Assessing and testing different emerging methodologies to evaluate portfolio carbon and portfolio decarboniza-tion pathways 12ESG Governance The Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee of the Board of Directors oversees our ESG activities. This committees responsibilities include reviewing our policies and programs for sustainability, climate change, human rights, diversity and other material ESG issues, as well as advising on engagement with external stakeholders. For more information on the roles and respon-sibilities of this committee, download the Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee charter. Sustainability Citis Sustainability & ESG team, led by our Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), works in partnership with our businesses to lead and implement our ambitious sustainability efforts globally, as well as our work to ensure that the human rights of our employees, suppliers and those affected by the projects we finance are respected. Our Global Sustainability Steering Committee provides guidance on environmental and social issues related to global business activities. The commit-tee is chaired by the CSO and a senior executive in our Institutional Clients Group and includes executives from Banking, Risk, Public Affairs, Operations and Technology, and ESRM. Committee meetings are held approximately three times annually. Citis ESRM Policy is managed by the ESRM team, which works closely with ESRM specialists in the business and with regional ESRM Champions. Within Operations and Technology, our Corporate Realty Services and Enterprise Supply Chain teams each have special-ized sustainability groups that manage our environmental footprint and green building goals and oversee supply chain sustainability. These specialized teams sit within their respective business units, ensuring ownership of sustainability goals throughout the company. Citis Board Chair participating in a fireside chat in Singapore discussing a range of topics, including building an ethical culture. For many years, climate risk has been addressed under our ESRM Policy in relation to project-related finance, and Citi is actively working to develop more comprehensive approaches to evaluate climate risk across our business, includ-ing reporting climate risk activities to the Risk Management Committee of the Board. To further our efforts, we formed a global, senior-level Climate Risk Working Group in March 2019. This cross-functional group is tasked with evaluating further integration of climate risk considerations into Citis risk management process, climate scenario analysis and stress testing, climate data and engagement with regulators on climate risk management. Community Investing Our Head of Community Investing and Development leads the team that tackles challenges within our communities through business investments as well as philanthropy. In late 2019, we announced the $150 million Citi Impact Fund, the largest standalone fund of its kind in the financial sector. The Citi Foundation, which provides grants to community organizations in support of its economic progress mission, is a separate legal entity that is governed by a Board of Directors made up of senior executives from across Citi. Learn more about this teams efforts in the Communities section. Talent and Diversity Citis Global Head of Talent and Diversity oversees our efforts to promote talent, diversity and inclusion in the work-place. Reporting to the head of Human Resources, she works in partnership with senior management, particularly members of the executive management team who co-chair our Affinity groups. Our talent and diversity efforts are governed by the Citi Board of Directors. Ethics and Business Practices Ethics and responsible business practices are among the most material ESG issues for Citi and our stakeholders. The Ethics, Conduct and Culture Committee of the Board oversees managements efforts to foster a culture of ethics within the company and receives regular reports from senior management on the progress 17Citi Sustainability & ESG partners with colleagues across Citi business-es to encourage and enable solutions that contribute to sustainable growth around the world. Citi Community Development forges innovative partnerships with leading nonprofits and public agencies across the U.S. to expand financial inclusion and economic opportunity for low-er-income and underserved house-holds in the communities we serve. In addition, the Citi Foundation, a private foundation funded by Citi, provides philanthropic grants to commu-nity organizations around the world for efforts that increase financial inclusion, catalyze job opportunities for youth and reimagine approaches to building economically vibrant communities. Underlying our approach is the notion that no single institution can address system challenges by working in a silo. We rely on a variety of partner-ships with clients, governments, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), academic institutions, and companies ranging from startups to large, multi-national corporations to succeed. These partnerships highlight how our work contributes directly to SDG 17, which seeks to strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development. In particular, Citis efforts contribute to target 17.3, which seeks to mobilize additional financial resources for developing countries from multiple sources, including the private sector, to ensure sufficient financing is available to achieve the SDGs. SDG Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals Innovative Local Government and Community Change Agents Increasingly, local governments and community organizations are playing a central role as change agents, leading on a wide array of issues, including infrastructure, employment, housing and financial health. Moreover, these entities often do so while facing signif-icant budget and resource constraints. A core pillar of our efforts to invest in local communities is to collaborate with and provide financial solutions to local governments and community organizations. Public-Sector and Institutional Financing We provide a broad range of banking and financial products and services, advice and support to public-sector clients, such as government agencies, central banks, development organizations, NGOs and academic institutions, to enable them to more effectively provide critical services to local communities. Citi is uniquely positioned to support large, global organizations that are in need of rapid solutions to solve complex problems. For example, in Costa Rica in 2019, we supported the payment needs of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. The Red Cross is responsible for operating a large fleet of emergency response ambu-lances, with fuel costs funded by Costa Ricas Ministry of Finance. Historically, ambulance drivers were given paper vouchers reflecting an approved monthly fuel allowance. The vouchers were accepted at most (but not all) fuel stations and were occasionally lost or damaged, rendering them invalid, leaving ambulances without fuel and putting lives at risk. The Red Cross collected used vouchers monthly, reconciling and consol-idating the fuel expenses, which were then reported to the Ministry of Finance for validation. This manual process was labor-intensive and time-consuming. At the request of the Red Cross, Citi developed and implemented a tailored purchase card program to replace the paper voucher model. The now-automated system not only ensures that ambulance drivers have access to fuel, it has also improved efficiency and reduced costs for the Red Cross. Many institutional investors are looking for returns beyond profit, and Citi offers products to meet this intent. Thematic bonds such as social, green and sustainability bonds provide a way for investors to see yields while also contrib-uting to positive environmental and social solutions. Thematic bonds continue to evolve to address changing needs and issues, and Citi works closely with clients and partners on new products. To learn more about Citis efforts to promote the growth of thematic bonds, including green and sustainability bonds, visit the Environmental Finance section. Philanthropic Efforts Around the world, NGOs make valuable contributions to addressing difficult social problems. But they need funding and other resources to amplify the impact of their work or to pursue as-yet-unproven solutions that can be tested and later brought to scale. This is often where Citi and the Citi Foundation can play an effective role. Moreover, by helping city leaders develop technology-driven solu-tions to urban challenges, our initiatives help support SDG 9, which promotes inclusive and sustainable industrializa-tion and fosters innovation. SDG Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 25Economic Transformation Through Digital Technologies Digital technologies (especially relating to connectivity, big data and artificial intel-ligence) are transforming every facet of the economy globally and locally. With public-sector expenditure in most countries accounting for anywhere from one-third to two-thirds of gross domestic product, it has become imperative for governments to drive digitization efforts. A strong digital economy requires a robust digital infra-structure, with digital money, payments and identity all required for the transforma-tion of any industry or society. Citis Digital Money Index, published annually since 2014, helps governments understand their respective countries readiness for usage of digital money. Each step taken toward digital money readiness can enhance a nations ability to transform its economy. According to the Digital Money Index, even a 10 percent increase in digital money readiness could help up to 220 million individ-uals enter the formal financial sector. A recent Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions (Citi GPS) report highlights the digitization of government, offering examples and case studies of how countries are progressing on their digital journeys. Cities for Citizenship In 2014, Citi became the founding corpo-rate partner of Cities for Citizenship (C4C), a nonpartisan national initiative aimed at promoting and expanding American citizenship and financial capa-bility among lawful permanent residents in the U.S. What began with just three cities (New York City, Chicago and Los Angeles) has since grown to a network of 92 American cities and counties. C4C celebrated its fifth anniversary in September 2019 with 45 local citizen-ship events across the country. Since the programs launch, the network has reached nearly 1.8 million people who attended citizenship-related program-ming, helped more than 48,000 people initiate the citizenship process and/ or apply for citizenship and connected 30,000 individuals with financial empowerment services. C4C, which is also supported by the Center for Popular Democracy and the National Partnership for New Americans, plans to expand to 100 cities and counties in 2020. In September, Citi was recognized by the United Nations Association, Southern California Division, for our role in catalyzing and scaling immigrant integration efforts. Financing Sustainable Cities Initiative The Financing Sustainable Cities Initiative (FSCI), a partnership funded by the Citi Foundation, aims to help educate cities about how to accelerate and scale up their investments in sustainable urban solutions. In 2015, the Foundation teamed up with the WRI Ross Center for Sustainable Cities and the C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group to help reduce global greenhouse gas emissions and improve quality of life for urban residents around the world. Areas of focus include bike sharing systems, low-and zero-emis-sion buses, rapid transit, transit-oriented development and affordable housing. The FSCI consists of two primary components: Peer-to-peer learning communities through which cities can share their experiences developing sustainable projects Direct technical assistance to cities developing sustainable finance strat-egies and projects In 2019, C40 Cities released a report showcasing early results of the initiative. 26 Community Progress Makers Fund The Community Progress Makers Fund supports high-impact community organizations that are driving economic progress in their communities. Since Community Progress Makers launched in 2016, the Citi Foundation has provided two-year, general operating support grants of $500,000 plus access to skills-based, pro bono Citi volunteer teams and a network of technical experts to nonprofits in six cities. Unrestricted funding, which is often in short supply, allows these organizations to go beyond business as usual to test innovative approaches in the way they work to better fulfill their missions and serve their communities. In 2019, we completed the second round of Community Progress Makers funding, with grantees producing meaningful impacts in their communities: $7M in household energy costs saved for 32,000 low-income families 33,800 people trained for employment and 9,900 hired for new jobs $46M saved through tax preparation service programs affordable housing units retained for 62,000 people 8,900 small businesses expandedFor example, Citi recently provided a $23.6 million construction letter of credit to finance a new, 107-unit apartment complex in New York that will reserve 65 units for chronically homeless individuals and families living with mental illness and special needs. The property will include access to a full range of supportive services for adults and children. The entire building is reserved for residents with income from 30 to 60 percent of the area median income. Older members of the LGBT+ community face high rates of discrimination, includ-ing when seeking affordable housing. Citi partners with SAGE, one of the oldest nonprofit organizations dedicated to the needs of the elder LGBT+ constituency in the U.S., to help ensure that communities are equipped to support aging LGBT+ residents through capacity building, consumer education, advocacy, training and the construction of more LGBT+-welcoming housing. In October 2019, with support from Citi, SAGE brought together housing developers, nonprofit practitioners and policy experts from across the nation for an inaugural LGBT Elder Housing Symposium in Washington, D.C. SAGEs National LGBT Elder Housing Initiative aims to make the housing sector more welcoming of older LGBT+ people. These efforts aim to contribute to meeting the need for affordable housing among the 3 million to 7 million LGBT+ people age 50 and above expected over the next decade. Innovative Approaches to Creating and Preserving Affordable Housing A half century after the Fair Housing Act was passed to boost access to housing opportunities for all U.S. residents, the entry point for homeownership is only getting more challenging to attain as housing prices continue to rise. Citi has identified and is investing in a proven tool for creating and preserving affordable housing: community land Female veterans are the fastest-growing segment of the homeless veteran population in the U.S. In Dallas, 175 Citi employees volunteered more than 2,400 hours to help build a Green Extreme Home for female veterans the first group home in the U.S. built under the U.S. Department of Energys Zero Energy Ready guidelines. Citi also supported the home project with funding as part of Bring Them HOMES. Housing for U.S. Veterans On any given night in America, an estimated 38,000 veterans are homeless.2 Many of them struggle with lingering trauma or suffer from various physical or mental disabilities. Since 2012, Citi has supported LISC and the National Equity Funds Bring Them HOMES initiative, which finances, facilitates, advocates for and implements affordable housing options for veterans. To date, a total of 5,000 affordable housing units, including 3,100 specifically for veterans, have been completed or are in development. For example, thanks to support from Citi, Skid Row Housing Trust built an afford-able housing project in Los Angeles called The Six, which now provides housing and services to veterans. The housing complexs name is derived from Got your six, a military phrase that roughly translates to Ive got your back. In Sacramento, California, a complex with 39 units most of them earmarked for veterans opened in 2019, thanks to funding from Citi and money from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Bring Them HOMES earned Citi a 2019 Community Commitment Award from the American Bankers Association the first such award given for supporting military families. We were one of eight banks recognized for outstanding commitment to our communities. 2 U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, 2018 Annual Homeless Assessment Report to Congress (Part 1: Point-in-Time Estimates of Homelessness). 31trusts (CLTs). A CLT is a nonprofit, community-based organization, typically run by a board, staff and community members, that buys land to build perma-nently affordable housing for low-income households. Dating back to the civil rights era, CLTs separate ownership of housing from ownership of the land on which the housing sits. The CLT retains New Tool Aims to Aggregate Vacant Land for Affordable Development According to federal statistics, nearly two-thirds of lower-income renters in Miami spend at least half of their income on housing more than any other city in the nation. Local officials and real estate devel-opers, however, have long said that there isnt enough land available to build more affordable housing. A new online tool developed by the University of Miami with support from Citi has revealed approximately 500 million square feet roughly the size of Manhattan of underuti-lized, publicly owned land in the greater Miami area that is potentially suitable for affordable housing development. Called Land Access for Neighborhood Development (LAND), the tool provides a real-time snapshot of the location, size and ownership of thousands of parcels of publicly or institutionally owned vacant or underutilized land across Miami-Dade County and its 34 municipalities. In order to build, developers would need to get access to land from the city and/or county or from institutions such as universi-ties and NGOs. ownership of the land while enabling low-and moderate-income households to purchase homes at affordable prices. The homeowners agree to cap the resale prices of the residences to ensure that future owners benefit from affordable prices as well. Today, there are some 225 CLTs, compris-ing more than 25,000 rental and 12,000 ownership units, across the country. As a leading supporter of CLTs in the U.S., Citi has invested approximately $7 million in seeding new CLTs in places like Miami, New York City and Washington, D.C. On Long Island, which suffered significant damage from Hurricane Sandy in 2012, the Long Island Partnership Community Land Trust has committed to building over three dozen affordable homes several of which have been completed and now house residents thanks in part to a $1.2 million investment from Citi. In New York City, the mayor recently committed to CLT units for 3,000 families, building on Citis $1.5 million investment in the Interboro Community Land Trust. In San Francisco, it is nearly impossible for affordable housing developers to compete with private developers in one of the most expensive, cash-driven real estate marketplaces in the country. Thats why Citi worked with the City of San Francisco to create the San Francisco Housing Accelerator Fund (SFHAF) an innovative nonprofit vehicle that enables mission-driven housing developers to more nimbly and sustainably build and preserve affordable housing. Since its launch in 2017, SFHAF has funded the preservation and construction of 433 units, including a historic Mission Street building that will provide eight apart-ments for low-and moderate-income households. The acquisition is also helping to preserve El Rio, a popular bar and cultural landmark that has served the local Latino and LGBT+ communities for more than 40 years. In New York, Citi has invested $1.2 million in the Joint Ownership Entity NYC (JOE NYC), which is enabling neighbor-hood-based nonprofit housing organiza-tions to aggregate their affordable units to achieve economies of scale. Together, these organizations are creating one of the citys largest nonprofit housing port-folios. JOE NYC is on track to own 3,500 affordable apartments by 2020. Beyond homeownership, in cities such as San Francisco and Washington, D.C., Citi has financed nonprofits that are trying to boost affordable rentals through acces-sory dwelling units (ADUs) secondary dwellings on a housing parcel, such as basements, garage apartments or separate freestanding structures. ADUs benefit homeowners by creating income streams while adding more affordable housing in residential neighborhoods. In Washington, D.C., for example, the nonprofit United Planning Organization is teaching residents how to take advantage of zoning regulations that allow for the building of ADUs. By educating qualified homeowners on how to design, permit and build ADUs on their properties, homeowners can increase property values, age in place, build intergenera-tional wealth and grow new skill sets in development and property management. Thriving Small Businesses According to the U.S. Small Business Administration, small businesses are at the forefront of economic growth. Yet they often face difficulties accessing the capital and development resources needed to thrive and grow. Through direct financing and partnerships with community organizations and local governments, we support the growth of small businesses and their contributions to the broader economic ecosystem in countries around the world. In 2019, Citi invested more than $10.6 billion in small business lending in the U.S. 32The Democracy at Work Institute and the National League of Cities are part of a national movement aimed at encouraging business owners of color to convert their businesses to employee ownership models to preserve wealth and stabilize commu-nities. In the U.S., more than 1 million business owners of color are nearing retirement. Collectively, they employ more than 8.2 million people and generate more than $1.2 trillion in annual revenue. Yet fewer than 20 percent of these business owners have post-retirement succession plans. In Washington, D.C., where nearly 40 percent of Black business owners are nearing retirement age, Citi supports the D.C. Employee Ownership Initiative to preserve legacy businesses and create new pathways to entrepreneurship. We also support Project Equity, a non-profit that helps retiring business owners transfer company ownership to employees to preserve small businesses in Southern California and South Florida. In Los Angeles, Citi was the founding corporate sponsor of a regional collaborative launched to make it easier for small businesses to bid for local contracts worth more than $1 billion. Small business owners have for years battled with a fragmented, antiquated and complex contract pro-curement system in the Los Angeles area. The newly launched OneLA Regional Collaborative establishes a partnership between some of the largest public agencies in the region seeking to connect diverse business-es to technical assistance, business resources and public and private contracting opportunities. The new system will streamline and speed up the procurement process and give small businesses a fairer shot as they compete for contracts. Learn how we are supporting women- and minority-owned small businesses in our own supply chain in the Operations and Supply Chain section. Microfinance as a Path to Womens Economic Empowerment Citi has partnered with the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (DFC, formerly known as OPIC) to expand microfinance loans to women in emerging markets around the world. In 2019, we committed to work with the DFC, the U.S. Agency for International Development and private-sector partners to mobilize an additional $500 million for women in Latin America. In Tunisia, we recently announced the launch of a $10 million loan guarantee facility, which will provide growth financing to more than 17,000 microentrepreneurs, approximately 65 percent of them women. And in Jordan, Citi provided $5 million to Microfund for Women, which will now be able to give loans to an additional 10,000 underserved Jordanian women. Citi also has partnered with CreditAccess Grameen, which was born out of the need to provide timely and affordable credit to low-income households in India. Women in India make up 60 percent of the countrys unbanked popula-tion of 190 million people. In 2019, Citi provided $29.5 million to CreditAccess Grameen to help reach an additional 75,000 women with an average loan size of $390. Microfinance loan programs are typically associated with emerging markets, while the need for such programs in industrialized countries such as the U.S. is often underappreciated. A decade ago, Citi collaborated with Grameen America to help establish the organizations first office in Queens, New York. Grameen America members who are all minority and immigrant women living on lower wages are provided with microloans, fee-waived Citi savings accounts, peer support and financial education to help them expand their businesses and generate income for themselves and their families. Grameen America released early results of the most rigorous, independent, third-party evaluation of group microfinance in the U.S. to date, which was produced with funding from Citi. This important preliminary research on Grameen Americas lending program demonstrates that helping women build positive credit histo-ries and raise credit scores is a powerful approach to expanding economic opportunity for fledgling entrepreneurs. Since launching in 2008, more than 129,000 women have received over $1.4 billion in microloans through this program to start and grow their businesses with 99 percent repayment. Most microfinance beneficiaries globally are women, making Citis work on microfinance a direct contributor to SDG 5, in support of gender equality and empowerment for all women and girls, and in particular target 5.a, which strives for a range of gender-related objectives, including giving women equal rights to economic resources. SDG Goal 5: Gender Equality 35Preserving Local Jobs Citi works with public and private part-ners to help remove the individual and systemic barriers to success for current and aspiring small business owners, such as access to capital and affordable space, as well as roadblocks to entrepreneur-ship. Because the specific challenges facing entrepreneurs often vary by city and region, we engage with local entities to implement thoughtful solutions. In New York City, Citi partners with LISC NYC and the NYC Department of Small Business Services to help revitalize commercial corridors and small busi-nesses across the city. Community orga-nizations apply for funding and access to expertise to implement initiatives that are most valuable to their corridors. The organizations focus on storefront improvements, such as new signage and lighting, as well as broader efforts aimed at boosting foot traffic, increasing sales and contributing to a greater sense of safety. Urban manufacturing also holds great promise as a path to higher-wage employ-ment and greater economic security. New York City has made development of the industrial and manufacturing sector a key component of its strategy to create more living-wage employment. Together, Citi and the Association for Neighborhood and Housing Development launched the Urban Manufacturing Accelerator Fund to create and preserve quality manufac-turing jobs in New York City. The Fund provides frontline resources that enable nonprofit developers to more effectively acquire and renovate manufacturing space by leveraging financing from the NYC Economic Development Corporation. In Brooklyn, a $6.85 million warehouse renovation project will create 10,000 square feet of industrial space to be leased at affordable rates for local industrial businesses and manufacturers. The project is one example of progress in the City of New Yorks 10-point Industrial Action Plan, which is aimed at growing 21st century industrial and manufacturing jobs in New York City. In the Bronx, a mixed-use, 50,000-square-foot industrial space that will create industrial and commercial space, as well as 740 housing units and open workspaces, will open in three phases by 2024. The Urban Manufacturing Accelerator Fund helped to catalyze both projects. Financial Inclusion Most people can easily comprehend the economic and social case for ensuring that all households have access to the financial products and services they need. But to develop solutions that meet the needs of underserved households, we need to understand the financial behav-iors of customers who are at risk of being excluded. Without that, even the most innovative and thoughtfully developed products will fail. Citi works to develop solutions that are safe, transparent and accessible ones that provide real economic value, includ-ing for those whose financial needs are currently unmet. We seek out innovative partnerships with financial institutions, telecommunications and fintech provid-ers, government agencies, consumer goods companies and others that have close relationships with the unbanked and the underserved segments of society. Our partners are trusted leaders in their sectors who understand the needs of their local markets. Success also requires setting public policy priorities and building the industry. Financial Inclusion and the SDGs An estimated 1.7 billion adults around the world, in both developing and developed markets, remain outside the formal banking sector. To improve access for these people, banks need to understand and address the mistrust of financial institutions among many traditionally underbanked communities and also invest in innovative products that meet their unique needs. We offer a variety of products, tools and services that help improve financial resiliency and inclusion in these communities and partner with organizations that are increasing access to financial services and providing educational resources to residents. Our extensive work on financial inclusion contributes to progress on SDG 8, which aims, among other things, to provide full and productive employment and decent work for all. For example, Citis work on financial inclusion around the world contributes to target 8.10, which aims to strengthen the capacity of domestic financial institutions to encourage and expand access to banking, insurance and financial services for all. Inclusive finance is also a key success factor for progress on SDG 9, which aims to build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation, specifically enabling progress on target 9.3, which seeks to increase the access of small-scale enterprises, particularly in developing countries, to financial services to facilitate integration into value chains and markets. SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth SDG Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 36need access to financial products and services, as well as the ability to use these products responsibly while protecting their own best interests. Citi offers a range of free, publicly available financial education resources online, including tools that help consum-ers plan for retirement, prepare for life changes and protect their wealth. In some instances, when customers may need special assistance, we provide support to address their needs. For example, during the U.S. federal government shutdown that ended in early 2019, Citi offered a range of assistance measures for custom-ers experiencing financial hardship as a result of the shutdown, including fee and interest adjustments, minimum payment deferrals and forbearance programs. Late in 2019, we provided a suite of disaster relief packages to customers impacted by Australias bushfires, including a payment moratorium with a suspension of repay-ment and no interest or fee charges. We also partner with community orga-nizations to build financial capability for individuals and communities. In the U.S. in 2019, Citi collaborated with more than 20 municipalities and counties, as well as leading nonprofit organizations, to support free tax preparation services and address the billions of dollars in unclaimed Earned Income Tax Credits (EITCs) left on the table by millions of lower-income working households annu-ally. The EITC, a refundable tax credit for EmpoweredNYC launched in early 2018 with an initial $2M seed investment from Citi EmpoweredNYC has delivered more than 1,100 specialized financial counseling sessions to nearly 700 New Yorkers 38 lower-income workers, is often the largest lump-sum payment these households receive all year. Yet according to the Internal Revenue Service, one out of every five eligible households does not claim the EITC and, of those who do file, many pay hundreds of dollars to file their taxes when there are free, professional filing services available to them. Citi provided approximately $4.5 million toward 2018 and 2019 tax time initiatives. In 2019, Citis investments had widespread positive impact, especially across the state of California, where Citi-supported tax preparation campaigns and services helped 29,500 eligible filers complete their EITC forms, which yielded over $58.5 million in tax credits claimed. These free tax preparation services helped filers save an estimated $6.8 million in tax preparation fees. Also in 2019, Citi announced the expansion of Empowered Cities, a landmark initiative designed to advance financial inclusion and economic opportunity for people with disabilities, many of whom live on lower incomes. Citis $2 million commit-ment will expand the initiative to Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles and San Francisco, building on the existing partnership with the City of New York and the National Disability Institute. Empowered Cities is also expanding the initiatives areas of focus to include housing and employment for financially vulnerable households in the disability community. Individuals with disabilities and their families are among the most underserved and financially vulnerable groups in the country. There are 61 million people with a disability in the U.S., and more than a quarter of them are living below the poverty line. The national expansion builds on the first municipal model, EmpoweredNYC, which launched in early 2018 with an initial $2 million seed investment from Citi. Led by the NYC Department of Consumer and Worker Protections Office of Financial Empowerment, EmpoweredNYC has deliv-ered more than 1,100 specialized financial counseling sessions to nearly 700 NewYorkers with disabilities and their families. In 2019, we participated in a convening of commissioners from 10 mayoral offices and disabilities-focused leaders to explore how we can address the most pressing financial security issues facing the disabil-ity community. In addition, we work with several municipal and community partners to provide immigrants with knowledge and resources to strengthen their financial capabilities. Many Mexican immigrants in the U.S., for example, are not familiar with the countrys complex financial and tax environment and face real or perceived obstacles rooted in language, culture and barriers to trust. The Ventanilla de Asesora Financiera (VAF) program operates on-site at Mexican consulates and offers in-language guid-ance on opening a bank account, budget-ing, paying off debt, gaining access to free tax preparation, establishing credit and building a secure financial future. Citi provided seed funding to create and scale this model and has collaborated with the Foreign Ministry of Mexico to expand it to 48 consulates across the country. Of the 48 VAFs operating in the consular offices of Mexico in the U.S., Citi directly finances eight. In 2019, the VAF program was featured at the first-ever summit for financial inclusion of Mexicans abroad, which was attended by key Mexican government officials across finance, education and foreign affairs. Empowered Through Education Education is one of the best means for improving ones financial situation. But high costs and other socioeconomic barriers can put higher education out of reach for many, especially those who are unbanked or living on lower incomes. In the U.S., where the rising cost of a college degree can prevent many from pursuing higher education and leave many others saddled with significant debt, Citi Start SavingSM aims to help. The program launched in San Francisco, Brave Girl Rising is a short film presented by the nonprofit behind the global campaign for girls education and empowerment Girl Rising. The film follows a young refugee woman named Nasro who sees education as her lifeline, yet who every day faces formidable challenges in accessing this fundamental human right. In telling her story, the film seeks to illuminate the plight facing millions of refugee girls around the world and inspire action for girls education and empowerment. Citi, which supported the film with the International Rescue Committee and others, hosted over 160 screenings of the film when it premiered on March 8, 2019, on International Womens Day. where one in three children are born into families with little to no savings. For many of these children, a college savings account could be their familys first expo-sure to mainstream financial services as well as a pathway to opportunity. In 2009, when then-Mayor Gavin Newsom put forward his vision for a universal childrens savings program, Citi stepped up to the challenge. We worked with the city, teachers and parents to understand the needs and challenges of establishing a savings program in which every child, even those whose parents may be unbanked and those who are foster children, is included. The result was Kindergarten to College (K2C), the nations first universal youth savings account program, built on the first-of-its-kind Citi Start Saving platform. A K2C account contains an initial $50 incentive for every child who enters the citys public school system. Additional incentives are awarded over time for making deposits or for positive behaviors in school. A new update to Citi Start Saving that was deployed in 2019 provides five different automated channels for taking deposits and automatically processes 39E for Education In 2013, we created our e for education campaign to raise awareness and funds for education-focused nonprofits that tackle childhood illiteracy and improve access to quality education. During the annual campaign, Citis Foreign Exchange business donates $1 for every $1 million traded on our platforms. The initiative, which also included local market bonds, expanded across Futures and Cash Equities for the first time in 2019. We raised $8.15 million in 2019, reaching over $37 million since the campaigns inception. and reconciles transactions and posts daily. These updates help families have greater control over their financial resources and immediately see how daily activity impacts their overall position. Participants and their families can access information on their program and accounts 24/7 from a desktop, smartphone or tablet. In September, Citi Start Saving enabled about 11,000 San Francisco public school students, including 5,000 kindergarteners, to kick off the new school year with this powerful new tool for achieving future success and saving for their education. We have made this platform available to any municipality that wants to start a child savings account (CSA) program. Research has shown that even a small amount of college savings can help build aspirations and encourage young people to view a college education as attainable. We recognize, however, that creating aspiration is not enough. We know that steps need to be taken to address the systemic roadblocks to higher educa-tion, especially for low-income families. Universal access to youth savings accounts is but one tool that can help advance that goal. The Future of Work The youth unemployment rate is three times higher than that of adults. Allowing economically disadvantaged young people to turn into economically disadvantaged adults contributes to a destructive cycle that hinders the growth of communities, cities and economies. Citi and the private sector as a whole have a role to play in helping to make the next generation the most employable yet. And publicprivate partnerships are among the most effective ways to reach low- income communities at scale and drive positive social and economic gains. Through the Pathways to Progress initia-tive, Citi and the Citi Foundation help to deliver on SDG target 8.6, which aims to substantially reduce, by 2020, the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training. SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth Pathways to Progress The Citi Foundations Pathways to Progress initiative is designed to help close the job-skills mismatch by providing young people with the tools they need through training, work experience and entrepreneurial opportunities. Since 2014, the Citi Foundation has invested more than $194 million to impact the lives of youth globally. As we look ahead, we remain committed to tackling the youth unemployment challenge. The Citi Foundation will reaffirm its philanthropic commitment, and we will complement these investments with youth-focused efforts happening across Citi, including programs that are helping us build a more diverse talent pipeline while also preparing the next generation for todays workforce. It is important for us to share the valu-able lessons that have informed the Foundations programming and shaped the evolution of this commitment. We believed then and continue to believe now that empowering young people, providing early work experience and financial knowledge, incubating an entrepreneurial mindset, creating networks and access to role models, and driving systemic and structural changes to the field of work are each integral to helping the next generation build stronger futures for themselves, their families and their communities. We recently published a report, entitled Pathways to Progress: Insights from Six Years of Programming that reflects on these learnings. Learn more about Pathways to Progress on the next page. Whats Ahead We will continue to collaborate both internally across our business units and with external stakeholders to maximize our impact and ensure an intersectional approach to the interrelated challenges facing our communities, such as wealth inequality and race, access to capital and gender, and financial capability and citizenship status. We will prioritize a business-led approach to building inclu-sive and resilient communities that allows us to bring all our resources to bear, leveraging initiatives such as the Citi Impact Fund, which makes investments in companies that are addressing societal challenges, with an emphasis on women- and minority-owned enterprises. 40Championing Climate Action As a bank, we have the ability to leverage our financing decisions, our relationships with our clients and our policies and procedures to drive positive climate action. We also champion climate-positive activities more broadly. In 2019 alone, we became: A signatory to the Principles for Responsible Banking, a set of principles that provide a framework to achieve a sustainable banking system. A signatory to the joint labor union and CEO United for Paris Agreement, reinforcing our commitment and support for the international plan to address climate change and accelerate the actions and investments needed for a sustainable future; this statement built on the We Are Still In declaration we signed in 2018 as part of our ongoing support for the Paris Agreement. A signatory to the Guiding Principles for Federal Action on Climate, which set out principles for long-term federal policy on climate change in the U.S. Completing Our $100B Environmental Finance Goal Environmental finance was one of the pillars of our five-year Sustainable Progress Strategy, which concluded in 2019.1 The $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal was the strategys flagship initiative. Due to increasing and innova-tive environmental finance activity in the global market, we were able to reach the $100 billion mark in the second quarter of 2019 and counted a total of $164 billion by years end. In 2019, several key invest-ment banking transactions related to renewable energy financing and mergers and acquisitions contributed significant league table credit2 to the goal. The marketplace has matured since we launched the $100 billion goal, which followed a previous $50 billion goal that we completed in 2013. Many of the products available today such as green bonds and loans, hedging for renewable energy projects and lending linked to environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance were relatively new or even nonexistent just a few years ago. The increasing focus on environmental finance is due to growing efforts by companies and other organizations to establish sustainability targets and the new and innovative products to help them achieve these goals, with an increased recognition of the urgency of the climate challenge and the need for solutions. To meet these needs, we help our clients achieve their goals in support of a sustainable global economy. Our $100 billion goal directly supported our mission to provide financial services that enable growth and economic prog-ress. Each transaction needed to meet at least one of six criteria in order to be counted: renewable energy, water quality and conservation, sustainable transporta-tion, green building, energy efficiency or clean technology. The activities that met these criteria covered a diverse range of products and services, such as project and infrastructure financing, green bonds, power purchase agreements and tax equity financing, to name a few. The environmental finance projects that counted toward the goal were all core banking activities financed and facilitated in partnership with Citi clients. While they certainly added to our own bottom line, their value and benefits extended to many stakeholders, local communities and the broader global economy. Leader in Sustainable Finance In 2019, Citi was ranked second in Dealogics Corporate Green, Social & Sustainable Bonds League Table. We were also ranked second in the industry for our municipal finance activity, which includes green bonds, by the Thomson Reuters SDC League Table, and fourth on Bloombergs Global Green Bonds (Corporates & Gov-ernments) League Table. Additionally, we ranked third for Tax Equity by Bloomberg New Energy Finance. 1 For performance against our Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard, please see the report Appendices. 2 A league table is a competitive ranking of banks, companies, industries, geographies or other groups of entities ordered according to a metric (e.g., deal volume, number of deals). 44How We Reached Our Goal To reach our goal, Citi drew on the diverse expertise of our global banking teams to provide our clients with innova-tive products and services that finance solutions to address climate challenges. To track transactions and calculate their contribution toward the goal, we used third-party financial sector league table data, which was developed to rank financial institutions based on their role in each transaction and overall activity in the market. This is aligned with the sectors method for measuring credit received for business activity. Our methodology is publicly available on our website. For the majority of the financial activity counted toward the goal, we used league table accounting credit from Dealogic, Thomson Reuters and Bloomberg New Energy Finance. For loans or other financial products for which there are no established league tables, we counted the amount that reflects Citis financial involvement in the deal. Our Sustainability & ESG team worked closely with contributing business units to track progress toward our $100 billion goal in the following business catego-ries: Alternative Energy Banking and Financing, Green Bonds, Public Finance, Commodities, and Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking. The Worlds First SDG-Linked Bond In 2019, the Italian utility Enel, a leader in the renewable energy space with an ambitious decarbonization strategy, launched the worlds first general purpose bond linked to the Sustainable Development Goals. This transaction is significant as the first general corporate purposes bond to be linked to sustainability performance indicators. Citi acted as joint active bookrunner on the $1.5 billion U.S. bond issue, which offers a unique coupon step-up feature: a one-time interest rate step-up of +25 basis points triggered if the renewable installed energy capacity target of 55 percent is not met by the end of 2021. After the inaugural issuance, Enel launched another SDG-linked bond in the European market, raising 2.5 billion across three tranches. The transaction was almost four times oversubscribed, with total orders of about 10 billion. The short-dated tranches of four and seven years followed a similar struc-ture as the USD bond; however, the coupon on the long-dated 15 year was linked to Enel achieving greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 equal to or less than 125 grams of carbon dioxide (CO2) per kilowatt hour, also incorporating a +25 basis point step-up mechanism if the target is not reached. These sustainability KPI-linked bond issuances have set a new precedent in the international bond market, and we expect several other issuers to adopt this structure in 2020. Contributing Businesses Alternative Energy Banking and Financing Citi provides a full range of financing solutions for environmental projects globally, and we continue to develop innovative, end-to-end solutions to meet our clients unique financing needs. Our Alternative Energy Banking and Financing teams have developed extensive exper-tise in financing solutions for a broad spectrum of renewable energy technol-ogies, including wind, solar, geothermal and biomass. For larger, utility-scale projects, we are able to provide multiple services as a one-stop shop for our clients, including construction financing, commodities hedging and tax equity on a single deal. Citis approach to alternative energy and banking products has sparked increased client demand for across-the-board financing solutions. Case Study: A Financing Solution for NextEra Energy Partners and KKR Citi structured a convertible equity portfolio financing solution for NextEra Energy Partners (NEP) and KKR & Co., a leading global investment firm, to fund renewable development in a unique structure that met the objectives of both clients. Under the agreement, KKR will acquire an equity interest in a structured partnership with NEP, which owns a diverse portfolio of 10 wind and solar projects in nine U.S. states, collectively consisting of more than 1,100 megawatts (mw). Citi was one of the leads on the financing of this complex, multilayered deal, which featured an innovative structure with a unique buyout option for NEP. The financ-ing included a funded term loan, delayed-draw term loan and equity margin loan. 46Green, Social and Sustainability Bonds Citi was one of the largest underwriters of green, social and sustainability bonds globally in 2019. These transactions helped our clients raise more than $7.8 billion to meet their environmental, social and overall sustainability goals. Citi co-founded the Green Bond Principles, which provide issuers with guidelines encouraging transparency, and we are an active member of its Social Bond Working Group and the Working Group on Climate Transition Finance. Through these working groups, we continue to contribute to the further development of the social and sustain-able bond market and look to provide further guidance for the emerging climate transition bond market. In early 2019, Citi expanded our leader-ship role in green bonds and sustainable financing. We have evolved from one of the co-authors of the Green Bond Principles to underwriter and now to issuer with our inaugural green bond: a 1 billion, three-year, fixed-rate green bond. Through March 2019, Citi issued a total of approximately $1.3 billion equivalent in green bonds, including $143 million equivalent across 18 transactions through the structured notes channel. The proceeds of the green bonds will fund renewable energy, sustainable transportation, water quality and conservation, energy efficiency and green building projects. These green bond issuances are an important milestone for Citi and demonstrate our commitment to being a leader in financ-ing sustainable global growth and prog-ress. They also illustrate Citis ability to scale sustainable solutions, respond to fast-growing investor demand and drive global impact in partnerships with our clients. Case Study: Underwriting a Green Bond Case Study: Supporting a Greener Building Product In 2019, Citi acted as a joint lead manager on a $2 billion, 10-year green bond for KfW, the flagship promotional bank of the Federal Republic of Germany. The bond marks the largest USD green bond ever issued by any sovereign, supranational and agency (SSA) issuer. The orderbook comprised 120 individual investors, closed in excess of $4.8 billion, and was underscored with strong support from green-motivated investors, who made up 58 percent of allocation. This was KfWs first USD-denominated green bond following the update of their Green Bond Framework in May 2019 to include funding for energy efficiency projects. Proceeds from the bond will finance new eligible green projects within the catego-ries of renewable energy (including the construction, expansion and acquisition of plants generating power or heat from renewable energy sources) and energy efficiency (including the construction of new energy-efficient residential buildings). Public Finance National and subnational governments are often on the front lines in responding to climate change, and Citi provides financial solutions, including loans and bonds, to help them invest in clean water, transportation and energy infrastructure to meet the needs of their citizens. Citis community lending and investing activity also includes financing of affordable housing and LEED-certified affordable housing projects that were counted toward our $100 billion goal. The affordable housing activity counted across the six years of the goal served nearly 6,800 families. Citi helped to finance construction of the manufacturing plant for the worlds first commercial-scale producer of medium density fiberboard (MDF) made from post-harvest rice straw. Once complete, CalPlant will be able to supply approximately 140 million square feet of sustainable high-performance no-added-formaldehyde MDF to the building products industry. In 2019, Citi financed $74 million of subordinate lien bonds that were certified green, given the projects environmental aspects. These follow $228 million in green bonds Citi financed for CalPlant in 2017. CalPlants predecessor company, CalAg, LLC, spent over 20 years developing and patenting a process to make sustainable high-performance MDF using annually renewable post-harvest rice straw as the feedstock. Californias Sacramento Valley is home to approximately 500,000 acres of rice annually. Rice straw, which has posed environmental issues in California for more than a century, is an agricul-tural waste product of the annual rice harvest. Historically, each year farmers would dispose of rice straw by burning the straw. The burning of rice straw produces various pollutants, which impacted the air quality of Californias Central Valley during the straw burning season. More recently, the straw has been disposed of by flooding the fields after harvest, initiating a decomposition process. This practice uses a large volume of water and generates one-half to one ton of methane gas per acre of planted rice from the rotting straw. By processing the straw into MDF, CalPlant will significantly reduce the amount of water that might otherwise be diverted from regional waterways to flood the fields, and, will improve air quality by less straw being decomposed in the flooded fields. Sacramento Valley rice growers within 15 to 25 miles of the plant site are provid-ing the straw used at the plant. 47Commodities Citigroup Energy Inc. (CEI) Citis Commodities team and energy trading desk provides hedges for renewable energy project financing deals, helps clients obtain renewable energy credits and works on commodities derivatives. These services help enable our clients to achieve their financial and environmental goals for renewable energy procurement. CEI has also played a role in helping Citi meet our goal to power our facilities with 100 percent renewable energy by 2020. Case Study: Sourcing Renewable Power QTS Realty Trust, a leading provider of data centers, signed a 10-year agreement to purchase renewable energy to power 100 percent of its electricity needs for its facilities in Chicago and Piscataway, New Jersey. With support from CEI, the company has also achieved 100 percent renewable energy status for its Irving, Texas, data center and plans to expand renewable power initiatives in existing and new data centers. In addition to wind power, the Piscataway data center also features a 14 mw solar farm that supplies energy. Environmental and Social Impacts Achieved Through Our $100 Billion Goal We recognize that the real-world impacts of our financing and lending activities are a crucial measure of success, and this certainly applies to the $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal. The impacts of this goal go much further than just the dollar amount of our direct financing. When we first developed our goal, we felt it was important to try to measure and understand the impact for our clients and the communities where we do business. Using stakeholder feedback, 4 EPA GHG Equivalencies Calculator, March 2020 50 Citi financed a U.S. wind and solar project owned by NextEra Energy Partners and KKR. we identified a range of impacts green-house gas (GHG) emissions avoided, jobs supported and community benefits realized that we are able to calculate for a subset of the transactions counted toward the goal. As there is no estab-lished standard way to measure these impacts, we developed our approach following extensive research on a variety of best practices. We utilize actual project data or apply a reasonable proxy if applicable. This area of work proved to be an ongoing education for us, where we learned as we went and consistently challenged ourselves to dig deeper. We refined our methodology over the last several years to better understand the impacts associated with the activity that counts toward our goal. Overall, we took a conservative approach to reporting impacts and did not include deals in which we have limited transparency on transaction details. Our impact measurement methodologies align with our accounting approach, reporting our share of the impacts proportional to our financial share of the transaction. To calculate environmental impacts, we developed models to estimate the avoided GHG emissions by a subset of the transactions that contributed to the $100 billion goal specifically, renewable energy financing, energy efficiency financing and public finance. The esti-mated 11.8 million metric tons (mt) of avoided GHG emissions as a result of our activities throughout the duration of the goal is the equivalent of removing more than 2.5 million cars from the road for one year.4 For social impacts, our primary metric is the number of jobs that are supported by a segment of the transactions count-ing toward the goal, specifically Citis financing of U.S.-based renewable energy projects and public finance activity. We developed a model, based on an approach used by economists and public policy experts, that estimated our contribution to supporting U.S. jobs. These calcula-tions were based on specific investment and expenditure profiles tied to data aggregated from a number of sources. Since 2014, we estimate that more than 198,000 direct, indirect and induced jobs were supported by the financing we provide to our clients. We also calculate our direct, indirect and induced impact on the U.S. gross domestic product (GDP). We estimate that our 2018 and 2019 financing activities contributed approximately $15.7 billion in total to U.S. GDP.being made. As a result, our client took responsibility for the worker accommo-dations of their subcontractor and made improvements to bring them up to the appropriate standards. In some cases, we must decline to partic-ipate in a transaction because we do not believe we can adequately address the environmental and social risks through mitigation measures or because the risks are too high. During 2019, for example, we declined participation in an oil and gas exploration project in a biodiverse tropical rainforest due to a lack of free, prior and informed consent from affected indigenous communities, as well as impacts to a critical habitat. We also declined a transaction for a hydroelectric project in Southeast Asia because of overlap with critical habitat for endan-gered species. In addition, we declined a number of early financing opportunities related to coal-fired power in Latin America and Asia based on the standards of our ESRM Policy commitment on coal-fired power. Applying our ESRM Policy helps us identify risks beyond traditional credit risks, guides how we evaluate transac-tions related to companies or projects within high-risk sectors and presents opportunities for us to advise clients on solutions to thematic risks. To learn more about our ESRM Policy, including Areas of High Caution, sector-specific standards and policy prohibitions, see our Environmental and Social Policy Framework. Our ESRM Policy covers a broad scope of financial products and client sectors and sets standards for how we assess client impacts on air quality, water quality, climate change, biodiversity, local communities, labor and other environ-mental and social issues. We established our comprehensive ESRM Policy in 2003 the first U.S.-based financial institution to do so and we continue to evolve our approach in response to emerging risks and new product development. Policy Implementation Our centralized team of ESRM specialists within Citis risk management function evaluates transactions that trigger a review according to our ESRM Policy.2 We also provide ESRM training to employees throughout our organization globally, enabling them to spot potential risks. This network approach enhances the global coverage capacity of our centralized specialist team. The ESRM team works collaboratively and shares information and best practices during bimonthly calls that help support and strengthen the entire network. Our ESRM team categorizes the project- related transactions they review as A, B or C, with A indicating the highest risk. The categorization is based on the magnitude of potential adverse environ-mental and social impacts associated with the project and is aligned with the Equator Principles (EP) and International Finance Corporation categorization. For general corporate purposes transactions under our ESRM Policy (categorized as general review), we evaluate a clients environmental and social policies and performance, as well as its commitment and capacity to manage environmental and social issues. Higher-risk, project- related transactions also receive in-depth reviews by independent environmental and social consultants. If gaps are found between a clients environmental and ESRM Due Diligence in Action In 2019, we identified environmental risks during due diligence for two potential financings of industrial facilities in Mexico. One of the planned facilities had the potential to negatively impact a critical mangrove habitat; the other was planned near an internationally protected wetland site where there were concerns about effluent drainage from the project into the wetlands. In both cases, we put financing conditions in place requiring the clients to engage biodiversity experts and develop action plans to avoid these environmental risks. These conditions led to the develop-ment of biodiversity management plans that were implemented during the con-struction of the facilities. Our ESRM Policy is most effective in cases like these, when we are considering financing projects and can include conditions requiring tangible actions to improve environmental and social outcomes. social plans, policies or practices and international standards, we develop an Environmental and Social Action Plan (ESAP) to fill the gaps. As a condition of financing, we require the client to imple-ment the ESAP, and we monitor progress over time. We also monitor the projects we finance to ensure the conditions of financing are being met. For instance, as part of our routine monitoring of a financed manu-facturing plant in Asia, we discovered that while our clients accommodations for construction workers met international standards, some of their subcontractors accommodations did not. We stepped in to ensure the conditions were improved to meet international standards for decent living conditions and followed up regularly to confirm that progress was 2 The ESRM section of our Environmental and Social Policy Framework outlines the scope of our ESRM Policy, including the types of transactions that trigger a review. 55Monitoring the Changing Risk Landscape The ESRM team uses a number of methods to proactively scan the changing risk landscape for new, emerging risks as well as risks with increased promi-nence and prevalence. Through internal research and third-party environmental and social data, we monitor relevant developments in high-risk industries and stakeholder concerns to flag emerging issues. In recent years, for example, concerns regarding e-cigarettes, opioids, private prisons and artificial intelligence have become more prominent. Our ongoing monitoring of these and other elevated concerns keeps us responsive to evolving risks, enabling us to raise aware-ness within Citi about emerging issues and helping us identify clients that might be impacted for further engagement. Our risk monitoring feeds into our ESRM Watchlist process, through which we flag individual companies based on their track records, sensitive or controversial assets, third-party sustainability scores and negative news. ESRM Champions Our ESRM Champions are credit risk officers and other employees with regional expertise and additional ESRM training, who serve as bridges between our local banking teams and our global ESRM team. They assist in training their local, internal teams about our ESRM Policy, engage with regional regulators about new financial regulatory guidance related to environmental and social risk and provide important regional insights that improve our ability to make respon-sible lending decisions. For instance, in some countries that are developing or have recently adopted regulations requiring banks to develop environmental and social risk policies and procedures including Brazil, Ecuador, Honduras, Paraguay and Peru our ESRM Champions are helping us understand the local context so we can more effectively execute due diligence processes and align our implementation. Client Engagement Engaging our clients is an important part of our ESRM due diligence process. Initially, these engagements were tied Collaborating to Update the Equator Principles Sixteen years after co-founding the Equator Principles (EP), Citi continues to help strengthen the Principles to ensure they remain relevant. During 2019, we continued our participation in the EP up-date process, helping to develop the most recent iteration of this global standard for banks evaluating environmental and social risks of project-related finance. Thanks to an initiative co-led by Citi, EP now encourages clients to share crucial biodiversity data for all transactions covered by the Principles. This transparen-cy helps to improve conservation efforts around the world. Citi also co-led the social risks working group, working hard to reach a consensus among all members on strengthened requirements related to potential project impacts on human rights and Indigenous Peoples. The updated standards, known as EP4, were released in November 2019 for implementation in July 2020. 56 Agribusiness Portfolio Review Deforestation is a key environmental concern globally, as it leads to habitat loss, biodiversity impacts and climate-related risks, among others. In 2019, we conducted a portfolio review of our agribusiness clients with a focus on the impacts of deforestation. We developed a questionnaire to gather information about how clients manage deforestation risks in their operations in the global tropics, including the tools they use to track deforestation and the certifica-tions they use to ensure sustainable practices and processes. We found that one of the most effective ways to decrease deforestation risks is through quality sustainability certifications, such as the certification of plantations by the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil, the Forest Stewardship Council and the Round Table on Responsible Soy. Some of the practices that these certifications ensure include the preservation of high-conservation and high-carbon-stock forests, the restoration of forests cleared after 2009 and a prohibition on using fire to clear lands. Our clients adoption of certifications in the areas of palm oil, forestry and soy in tropical countries has increased in recent years, as has the total area of their plantations certified. In addition, more companies are actively employing new technologies that enable transparent traceability of their supply chains. These are positive developments, and we are now analyzing the results of this portfolio review to inform continued improvement in our ESRM approach to the agribusiness sector.Partnership to Protect Workers Rights Ulula is a mobile phone technology platform that facilitates the report-ing of worker welfare issues, the monitoring of working conditions and employee engagement. In 2019, we worked with Ulula to lay the groundwork so that this tool could be deployed to address labor rights issues for a large infrastruc-ture project in the Middle East beginning in 2020. This technology has great potential to safeguard the rights of migrant workers, enabling immediate reporting of concerns using mobile devices. Ulula has reached more than 1 million people in 22 countries to help advance worker and community engagement through their inclusive technology and real-time analytics across a broad set of industries. to specific, project-related financial transactions and their associated envi-ronmental and social risks and mitigation efforts. However, as we have developed sector-specific standards over the years, we have added corporate-level reviews and client engagements in a number of sectors. These sector-specific risk review processes encourage dialogue between Citi and our clients about the material environmental and social risks associated with their operations, enabling us to develop a better understanding of prevailing industry practices and our clients performance. Some examples of client engagement activities in 2019 include ESRM-focused site visits in Colombia and Peru to meet with clients in the oil, mining and palm oil industries. We learned how one mining client was addressing and remediating legacy environmental lead contamination and other environmental health concerns connected with one of their mines. Another mining company demonstrated best practices in biodi-versity management by successfully restoring a biodiversity corridor after mine decommissioning, which fostered the reemergence of local flora and fauna, including jaguars. We also engaged with a palm oil client that has shown impres-sive supply chain traceability through certification of their smallholders to ensure their supply chain is deforesta-tion free. These engagements help us learn about emerging best practices for managing environmental and social risks that can be shared with other clients facing similar challenges. During 2019, we also continued to engage clients in the oil and gas industry on issues related to environmental, social and governance performance and climate risk. Enhancing Our Training Each year, we train key risk and banking personnel on our ESRM Policy. Topics include environmental and social risks relevant to certain regions and sectors, EP implementation and Citis Sector Standards. The training also includes emerging risks and guidance to help employees recognize environmental and social risk in transactions ranging from climate change risks to human rights risks to labor concerns and more. In total, more than 590 Citi employees underwent ESRM training during 2019. Piloting a Policy Chat Bot During 2019, Citi piloted a new chat bot that provides employees with information about a broad range of issues covered by Citis risk policies. Our ESRM function pro-vided input into the development of the chat bot related to the scope of our ESRM Policy. The chat bot pilot is designed to test ways to make Citi policies more accessible to employees, and, in the case of the ESRM Policy, to help them better determine whether a specific transaction or client review requires engagement with the ESRM team. 57Climate-Related Risk Climate Risk Analysis Climate change is one of the most critical issues facing society today. Actions must be taken to transition to a low-carbon economy and address the climate-related risks that are already being felt in many regions and industries to avoid the worst impacts of climate change. As a financier of the global economy, we are keenly aware of the seriousness and urgency of climate change and how it may affect the world. In response, we are assessing the impacts of climate change on our portfolios, and then, informed by this deepened understanding, we are working to enable the transition toward a low-carbon economy. This section delves into our risk-related activities. For a broader overview of Citis approach to climate-related issues, see Citis Support for Climate Action. Citis ESRM Policy sets a framework to assess the potential climate risks and impacts of the clients and projects that we finance. Our project-related finance approach aligns with the Equator Principles, including an alternatives anal-ysis of less carbon-intensive technologies for all transactions that exceed 100,000 tons of carbon dioxide emissions and a risk assessment of negative impacts from physical climate risk. Our ESRM Policy also includes Sector Standards that cover carbon-intensive sectors such as coal mining, coal-fired power, forestry, oil and gas and palm oil, that have a greater impact on climate change and are more exposed to climate transition risks. With the help of our cross-functional Climate Risk Working Analysis of Clean Energy Scenarios In 2019, Citi Global Perspectives and Solutions (Citi GPS) released its report Energy Darwinism III: The Electrifying Path to Net Zero Carbon. The report notes that significant reductions in future carbon dioxide emissions can be achieved through the electrification of transport and industry as we move away from fossil fuel use and toward clean energy alternatives. Using Citis Global Integrated Energy & Emissions Framework it provides an analysis of likely impacts if the global community maintains its current level of energy use compared with the impacts and tradeoffs that could occur if we pursue differ-ent energy use scenarios. Increased electrification from clean energy poses undeniable risks for the fossil fuel industry. The Citi GPS report delves into the implications for the oil and gas and coal industries, showcasing the variables at play and the complexity inherent in charting a course forward. In relation to our own business, quanti-fying short-term and long-term risk for these industries remains a high priority as we manage our energy portfolio and reduce our exposure to industries that carry significant risk. Of course, risk is only one side of the equation. The transition also creates new opportunities. For more information about how Citi embraces investment opportunities related to clean energy and other sustainable solutions, see the Environmental Finance section. Group, the ESRM team is developing more comprehensive internal guidance to evaluate the climate risk of specific sectors for integration into the broader risk analysis of clients. More information about our ESRM Sector Standards are available in our Environmental and Social Policy Framework. Climate risk analysis methodologies, tools, data and scenarios continue to rapidly improve and advance. As the expectations on banks to understand their portfolio-wide climate risk continue to increase, Citi is taking steps to further integrate climate risk considerations into our risk management approach beyond the scope of the ESRM Policy. We remain committed to participating in industry collaborations, monitoring developments and experimenting with different approaches to help us enhance our understanding and capacity for addressing climate-related risks and opportunities. For a discussion of Citis Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) implementation, please see our 2018 TCFD report, Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future, and the Citis Support for Climate Action section of this report. Reducing Credit Exposure to Coal The shift away from fossil fuels to renewable energy will have a significant effect on both coal mining and coal-fired power production. Since 2015, Citi has had a commitment to reduce our credit exposure to the coal mining industry and conduct enhanced due diligence on our coal mining clients environmental and social policies and performance. The effort applies globally to companies generating a majority of their revenues from coal mining activities and to coal- focused subsidiaries of diversified mining companies. As a result of our commit-ments and related activities, we have successfully reduced our credit exposure in recent years. 58Whats Ahead Addressing the risks associated with climate change is a priority for Citi and for our key stakeholders, including clients, investors and regulators. In an effort to better understand how the transition and physical risks of climate change may affect our business, our clients, our communities and the global economy, we are continuing to explore new methodologies and tools that assess and measure these risks as well as potential opportunities. It is incum-bent upon all sectors to contribute to solutions that limit warming to no more than 2C, with a goal of staying below 1.5C, above pre-industrial levels. As a result, we expect that climate-related risks and opportunities will be a growing priority for our clients in all sectors, not just for those in the fossil fuel and other traditionally carbon-intensive industries. In 2020 we will continue to test emerg-ing climate risk assessment methodol-ogies to better understand the climate risk faced by Citi and our clients, and we will continue to engage our clients on the transition to a low-carbon economy. In addition, 2020 will be a key year for biodiversity and implementing the new EP4. As a leader in developing the guid-ance note on Biodiversity Data Sharing for EP4, Citi will be working with partners and other banks that have adopted the Equator Principles to raise awareness and train clients on how to share crit-ical biodiversity data that is gathered during project design and operational monitoring. During 2019, we made progress imple-menting our new ESRM Policy commitment on coal-fired power, which prohibits any financing for the construction or expan-sion of coal-fired power plants. The restric-tion includes transactions supporting the supply of all components, equipment, materials and services directly required for the construction of such plants. The only exception that may be considered is for proposed ultra-supercritical plants that address situations of energy poverty (i.e., in countries where the national electrifica-tion rate is 90 percent or below according to the annual Energy Progress Report) and align with the host countrys Nationally Determined Contribution under the Paris Agreement. Since the implementation of the policy, no transactions that we have reviewed have met this exception criteria. In 2019, we declined five opportunities for financing during the early stages of engagement as a result of this policy restriction. In support of our new commitments, we are reviewing our power-sector clients with coal-fired generation to evaluate their greenhouse gas (GHG) tracking, reporting and reduction strategies and their management of risks and opportu-nities related to a low-carbon transition. We want to understand how they are integrating climate risk analysis into their business strategy, if they have plans for diversification away from coal-fired power sources and whether they are developing low-carbon transition strat-egies to align with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. As we help our clients transition away from coal, we consult external frame-works and initiatives such as the Edison Electric Institutes environmental, social, governance and sustainability template and the Transition Pathway Initiative. We also identify clients that have demonstrated success in transitioning away from coal as well as clients that are experiencing challenges. Through engagement with diverse clients, we share best practices and encourage open dialogue to support the energy transition. Cross-Industry Collaboration on Climate Risk in Maritime Shipping GHG emissions from the maritime ship-ping industry are expected to increase over time to keep up with expanding global trade. As industries transition to low-carbon alternatives, maritime shipping will need to do the same or face significant financial risks. Our influence and investment in this sector give us an opportunity to advance initiatives that promote responsible lending and acceler-ate financing to support this transition. Working in collaboration with other banks and organizations within the shipping industry, Citi helped to develop and was a founding signatory of the Poseidon Principles. Released in 2019, these Principles provide a framework for lenders, lessors and financial guarantors to integrate climate considerations into lending decisions with international shipping clients to help the sector decarbonize in line with the goals of the International Maritime Organization. As a part of our commitment under the Poseidon Principles, we will be measuring and disclosing the carbon intensity of our shipping portfolio on an annual basis. We expect to publish our first disclosure in alignment with these Principles in 2020. Citi is also a member of the Getting to Zero Coalition, which is focused on the development of commercially viable, zero-emission vessels and other needed maritime infrastructure for scalable net- zero-carbon energy sources, including production, distribution, storage and bunkering. Launched during Climate Week NYC in September 2019 with over 100 coalition members and supported by 14 governments, this coalition is coor-dinated by the Global Maritime Forum, Friends of Ocean Action and the World Economic Forum. 59for preventing and addressing the risk of adverse impacts on human rights linked to business activity. The UN Guiding Principles draw upon existing international human rights instruments whose principles we endorsed years ago, such as those in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organizations Core Conventions regarding child labor, forced labor, freedom of association, the right to organize and bargain collectively, and equal pay and nondiscrimination in the workforce. To increase transparency, we have prepared this Environmental, Social and Governance Report in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework (see UNGP index). Citi regularly updates our policies and practices to strengthen our human rights due diligence. During the devel-opment and subsequent updates of our Statement on Human Rights, which we first adopted in 2007, we engaged internal and external stakeholders to help assess our actual and potential adverse human rights impacts and to identify the most salient human rights risks faced by our employees, workers connected to our supply chain and individuals who might be impacted by our clients operations. We published the most recent update to our Statement on Human Rights in late 2018. In addition, Citis Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) Policy, adopted in 2003 and summarized in our Environmental and Social Policy Framework, guides our approach to assessing environmental and social issues related to financing our clients business activities. For more information about our ESRM Policy and related due diligence processes, see the ESRM section of this report. Each year, we publish a UK Modern Slavery Act transparency statement summarizing our approach to identify-ing and mitigating the risks of modern slavery in our operations including client transactions and in our supply chain. It covers information about our governance and policies related to modern slavery, risk assessment and due diligence processes, and training. Analysis and feedback from third parties provide valuable perspective as we work to improve our policies and practices in this area. In November 2019, BankTrack released its third Human Rights Benchmark for global banks. The bench-mark scored 50 global banks according to criteria based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our policies, processes and reporting helped us achieve frontrunner status in the benchmark, the only U.S. bank to do so. However, the benchmark shows that improvement is needed across the indus-try, including by Citi, to make a measur-able difference in the lives of people around the world who are affected by our financing activities. We will continue to improve and consistently implement our due diligence processes, revisit our commitments regularly, updating them as needed, and provide transparent disclosure to drive progress in respect for human rights across the financial sector. Our Salient Human Rights Risks Human rights is one of our most material environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. We have spent more than a decade working on the most salient human rights risks related to our busi-ness those that pose the greatest risk to people including the activities of our clients and other business partners. We identified most of these risks under our ESRM Policy as Areas of High Caution several years before the advent of the UN Guiding Principles. To identify these areas, we focused on the most severe potential risks posed to people by our clients activities, particularly in the context of project finance. Our work to address these risks has included helping to found and govern the Equator Principles (EP) framework to enhance and standardize risk management across the banking sector, establishing an internal ESRM team, and developing our risk identification and mitigation policies and procedures. (See page 66 for more about how we manage these risks.) Financial Access for Survivors of Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking In September 2019, the UN Financial Sector Commission on Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking released its final report, Unlocking Potential: A Blueprint for Mobilizing Finance Against Slavery and Trafficking. It also launched Finance Against Slavery and Trafficking (FAST), a new project intended to help survivors of modern slavery and human trafficking gain access to financial services. FAST is a coalition of 12 leading banks, including Citi, and six survivor service organizations in North America and Europe. FASTs Survivor Inclusion Initiative aims to help survivors facing barriers to financial access, such as having their identification documents confiscated by traffickers or having their identity or financial informa-tion hijacked for money laundering purposes. The Survivor Inclusion Initiative provides financial institu-tions, service providers, regulators, governmental actors and other key stakeholders with a framework to match identified survivors to basic financial services, such as checking and savings accounts as well as debit cards. 63While our formal risk management processes give us more leverage when we are directly financing a project, we also identify and address human rights risks that could arise across our value chain. In the most recent update to our Statement on Human Rights, we formally recognized many of those issues as salient human rights risks for our company, including discrimination in employment practices and the provision of financial services; adequate standard of living and right to property; the need to safeguard the privacy of information shared with us by our employees and customers; and more. Citi has longstanding policies, procedures and programs to address these issues. Our handling of salient human rights risks is regularly communicated to senior management and our Board of Directors. For more information about our gover-nance of ESG issues, including human rights, see the ESG Governance at Citi section. Salient Human Rights Risks: Stakeholder Impacts This table illustrates which stakeholders could be impacted by the human rights risks we have identified as most salient to our company, including risks related to our own operations and the activities of our clients. Shaded risks are categorized as Areas of High Caution and trigger additional due diligence for project transactions in alignment with our ESRM Policy. Additional context about these risks and the due diligence processes we have in place to identify and mitigate human rights risks in our value chain can be found throughout this report, in our Statement on Human Rights and in our Environmental and Social Policy Framework. Human Rights Risks Citis Employees Suppliers Employees Customers and Clients Those Affected by Clients Projects Adequate standard of living; right to property Conflict risk Discrimination in the provision of financial services Diversity and inclusion; discrimination in the workplace Indigenous Peoples Information security; privacy Labor practices (including modern slavery) Resettlement Security practices 64 Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees Every Citi employee is expected to adhere to our Code of Conduct, which includes a commitment to human rights, and to participate in relevant training. Our Code of Conduct prohibits unlawful discrimi-nation, harassment and other behaviors that infringe on individual rights. This policy applies to all employees, as well as to suppliers, clients and community partners globally. Efforts to promote diversity and inclu-sion are not always discussed in terms of human rights, but they are human rights concerns, as they seek to protect individuals from unlawful discrimination on the basis of essential characteristics that relate directly to a persons sense of dignity. These efforts also aim to remedy disparities in the treatment of women and minorities in the workplace. Respect for diversity and inclusion is a high priority wherever we operate and can become a particular concern in countries where there is no legal protection against discrimination based on gender, gender identity, race, ethnicity, age, religion, physical or mental disability or medical condition, or sexual orientation, in addition to a range of other essential characteristics inherent to identity and personhood. Citi prohibits discrimination and harassment of our employees in all forms regardless of whether individual protections are legally mandated in the countries and communities where we operate. In fact, we know that even in locations where anti-discrimination laws exist, there is still a need for companies to ensure they are doing their part to respect individual rights. During 2019 we raised the minimum wage of our U.S.-based employees to $15 an hour. We also continued our study of pay equity across the company to identify gaps in pay between men and womenglobally and minorities and nonminorities in the U.S. Learn more about our pay gap analyses and broader diversity and inclu-sion efforts in the Talent and Diversity section. Freedom of Association While the financial services industry is not heavily unionized, we do have unions or work councils in many of the countries where we operate. Approximately 12 percent of our employee population is covered by collective bargaining agreements. We engage directly with our employees and through these asso-ciations to discuss issues such as health and safety, remuneration, work hours, training, career development, work time flexibility and equal opportunity. Information related to freedom of asso-ciation is communicated to employees through various mediums, including employee handbooks, our intranet and employee emails. Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers and Partners Our nondiscrimination policies extend to Citis and the Citi Foundations phil-anthropic activity and to Citis suppliers. We do not provide funding to organiza-tions that discriminate on the basis of personal characteristics, such as gender, race and sexual orientation, among others. We communicate our approach to human rights to our suppliers in our Statement of Supplier Principles. Our approach is reinforced by our Corporate Responsibility Questionnaire (CRQ), which helps our procurement team determine how well potential and current suppli-ers manage environmental and social sustainability issues, including human rights issues. Our CRQ for the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region includes questions specific to modern slavery concerns, and we are planning to implement these questions across other regions as well. In 2017, we conducted an assessment of our Tier 1 suppliers at certain spend thresholds in EMEA to assess modern slavery-related risks. Following that assessment, we have been engaging suppliers deemed of greatest risk to better understand their approach to managing these risks. In 2018, we initi-ated a pilot for our highest-risk suppliers in the following sectors: building services, cleaning services and supplies, catering services, and ground transportation and other transportation sectors. We expanded this work in 2019 to target 219 suppliers with enhanced due diligence questions about their specific policies and procedures to identify, prevent and mitigate risks of modern slavery in their operations and supply chains. We are using the responses we received from this initial group of high-risk suppliers to develop a methodology for assessing and categorizing the quality of the information provided. We will then roll out the program globally to enable the screening and escalation of higher-risk suppliers for further engagement in a consistent fashion across our regional sourcing teams. More information about our efforts to combat modern slavery is available in our 2019 UK Modern Slavery Act transparency statement. The work we do to fight modern slavery throughout our value chain, along with our related reporting, policies, due diligence and risk assessments, demon-strates Citis commitment to SDG 8, which aims to promote sustained, inclu-sive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. In particular, our work in these areas addresses target 8.7, which includes a mandate to eradicate forced labor, end modern slavery and human trafficking and end child labor in all its forms. SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth For more information on our supply chain, see the Operations and Supply Chain section. Calling for Inclusion of Refugees In 2019, we reinforced our commit-ment to refugees by signing the Business Refugee Action Networks statement on the Sustainable Development Goals. The statement advocates for the inclusion of refugees to make progress toward the SDGs and recognizes the critical role of business to ensure they are not left behind. Citi and the Citi Foundation have a history of supporting refugees through finan-cial inclusion programs as well as with business training and start-up The Vice Chairman of Citigroup and Chairman of Banking, Capital Markets and Advisory joined business leaders and journalists at the UN General Assembly to demand action and draw attention to the lack of refugee inclusion in the SDGs. grants. By signing this statement, we join with other businesses and organi-zations to call for action to improve the lives of refugees. 65Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions The challenge of effectively evaluating human rights risks related to our clients and the projects we finance is significant. We work diligently to meet this challenge and respect the human rights of the individuals and communities impacted by the projects we finance. Our U.S. Commercial Firearms Policy, adopted in 2018, is one example of how Citi can have an influence on the protection of human rights. Under this policy, we require clients or partners that are U.S. firearms retailers or firearms manufacturers that sell through U.S. retail channels to adhere to a set of best practices regarding the sale of firearms. For retailers, these practices include selling firearms only to individuals who have completed a background check, not Recognition of Our Work to End Gun Violence In 2019, Citi received the Corporate Action Award from the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence during the first-ever Brady Action Awards. The award was in recog-nition of Citis U.S. Commercial Firearms Policy, which enforces a set of best practices for our U.S. clients and partners regarding the sale of firearms. Citi contin-ues to support the Second Amendment to the U.S. Constitution and the rights of Citi customers to purchase firearms. At the same time, in response to horrific acts of gun violence in our communities, we also recognized our responsibility to establish this policy, which includes common-sense provisions for the responsible sale of firearms. The elements of the policy have strong bipartisan support and are backed by many gun owners. selling high-capacity magazines or bump stocks (which modify semiautomatic fire-arms to fire faster, at rates comparable to fully automatic firearms), and selling firearms to individuals under age 21 only if they have received firearms safety training (e.g., as part of active or former military or law enforcement employ-ment or via hunter safety training). For manufacturers, best practice entails only selling firearms to retailers who are following these same practices. Another opportunity we have to thwart human rights abuses is through our anti-money laundering efforts, which help us prevent criminally sourced funds includ-ing funds associated with human rights abuses, such as human trafficking from passing through our bank. Disrupting the flow of money to those perpetrating human rights abuses and denying those abusers safe harbor for illicit proceeds tied to corruption or human rights viola-tions are effective ways to undermine their efforts. While these two examples illustrate our ability to proactively avoid business transactions with adverse human rights impacts, there are other situations in which the link between our financial services and adverse human rights impacts is less direct. That complexity may mean we have less leverage, and it diminishes our ability to ensure that on-the-ground outcomes are consistent with Citis values. In these instances, we work to improve our clients awareness and business practices. In addition, where a transactions financial and legal structure allows it, we put loan covenants in place and monitor mitigation efforts through ESRM systems and corrective action plans. Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions Citi has thousands of corporate and insti-tutional clients. The UN Guiding Principles acknowledge the challenges posed by having such extensive business relation-ships, and we have adopted the approach set out in the Principles of prioritizing our due diligence and risk mitigation first to areas where the risk of adverse human rights impact is most significant from the perspective of people who could be affected. We use our ESRM Policy, where applicable, to assess and manage risks consistently and evaluate client projects and activities against a common set of environmental and social standards grounded in international best practice, including human rights norms and the International Finance Corporations Performance Standards. Our ESRM team screens transactions covered by our ESRM Policy during the initial marketing phase to identify any client activities we believe pose height-ened risks to workers or local commu-nities. Our policy prohibits financing any project for which our due diligence indicates a risk of harmful or exploitative forms of forced labor or child labor or when the relevant labor forces have been subjected to human trafficking. In addition, the policy covers Areas of High Caution heightened environmental and social risks that require closer due dili-gence and additional risk management. These are issues we have identified as salient human rights risks related to our corporate and investment banking clients activities. They include the following: Conflict risk: Certain sectors may present a greater degree of proj-ect-induced conflict risk, which may be tied to competition for resources or land. In such cases, Citi carefully assesses key conflict factors such as sources of tension and root causes of conflict, actors and their inter-ests, and development needs and incentives to address such risk in the projects area of influence. Indigenous Peoples: Various con-cerns can arise regarding the extent to which indigenous communities are consulted during project develop-ment and have consented to impacts 66to their land, livelihood and cultural heritage. Labor: There are risks related to labor forces used in the construction of projects or other operations, including risks associated with forced labor, child labor and human traffick-ing by project operators and their subcontractors. Resettlement: The resettlement of local communities, including indigenous groups, can be necessary for project implementation. When this occurs, it should be conducted through carefully designed resettle-ment action plans that are reviewed by project lenders in advance of implementation and should, where necessary, include efforts toward achieving the free, prior and informed consent of indigenous communities. Security practices: Security concerns can arise relating to how project sponsors engage with public or private security forces protecting project sites. In such circumstances, if we decide to proceed with financ-ing, we will advise project sponsors on the implementation of interna-tional standards, such as those in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. If, during our initial screening or more extensive due diligence for a transac-tion, we find there is a risk of adverse impacts, we carefully evaluate the clients current commitment and capacity to avoid, mitigate and/or manage those impacts in accordance with international industry best practices and human rights norms and their willingness to engage in continual learning and improvement. We escalate the most challenging cases with the potential for severe adverse impacts to senior business and risk managers for collective discussion on the risks and the clients commitment and capacity. In some cases, senior management will conclude that the likelihood for adverse impacts is too great posing an imminent threat to people or communities and we will re-evaluate the client relationship or decline involvement in the transaction. This is a move we take very seriously as we recognize that terminating the relationship can have a number of ramifi-cations, including removing any leverage we might otherwise have had to improve practices over time through constructive engagement. After the financial close of project- related transactions that have time- bound environmental and social action plans, we monitor the project sponsors implementation of those actions through the construction and operation phases of the project often through the retention of an independent environmental and social risk consultant who periodically reports to lenders following on-the-ground audits. For more information, see the ESRM section. Transactions Reviewed Under Citis Statement on Human Rights In 2019, the ESRM team screened 557 total transactions during the initial marketing phase, and of those, 44 were flagged as requiring additional due diligence for human rights risks. This screening does not include other human rights risk assessments the ESRM team undertakes as part of annual client reviews or portfolio reviews. The specific types of risks we uncovered are outlined in the table below. Of the 44 transactions flagged for additional human rights due diligence, 18 proceeded to close after we confirmed the clients were managing and mitigating the potential risk appro-priately. Transactions may not reach financial close for a number of reasons, not solely due to ESRM review. Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions* Human Rights Risks Reviewed in 2019 Closed in 2019 Conflict Risk Indigenous Peoples Labor Risks Resettlement Security Practices Water 8 17 9 8 7 4 2 6 6 4 1 1 Total Transactions 44 18 * One transaction may have more than one human rights risk. 67Providing Access to Remedy The UN Guiding Principles call on governments and companies to play their respective roles in ensuring that victims of human rights abuse have access to effective remedies. Remedy can take many different forms, including apolo-gies, financial or nonfinancial compen-sation or efforts to prevent future harm through policy commitments and changes in operational practice. The purpose of remedy is to help make victims whole again or to restore them, as much as Applying Our Policies to Protect Human Rights and Reduce Risk When our due diligence processes uncover the risk of human rights violations in potential or estab-lished client relationships, we inves-tigate further and, when necessary, engage with our clients to better understand their approach to managing such risks. When needed, we work with them to identify corrective action in alignment with international best practices. If proactive management of human rights risks is not possible, we might re-evaluate the client relationship or deny financing or involvement in a particular transac-tion. During 2019, we exited a rela-tionship with a client in the palm oil industry who failed to follow our policy requirement of main-taining certification through the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) a multistakeholder initiative with principles and criteria regarding sustainable palm oil. possible, to their lives and enjoyment of their rights before those rights were violated. Remedy can also help ensure that they and others will not suffer similar harm in the future. As a financial institution, our approach to remedy usually involves working with clients to ensure they have the right policies in place and channels available to enable victims to lodge grievances. In addition, these companies must follow up on allegations and have established processes to offer remedies or cooperate with authorities to make sure effective remedy is provided. Continuous Learning Engaging Stakeholders To ensure that we are living up to our commitment to respect human rights and anticipate emerging risks, we regularly communicate our approach externally and engage with stakeholders on their issues of concern. During 2019, we participated in a project to improve metrics related to human rights reporting through Shift. Citi also acted as co-lead for the EP Social Risk working group, which developed new language and guidance on both protection of the rights of Indigenous Peoples and human rights risk assessment. In addition, we pay close attention to human rights issues raised by stakehold-ers within specific industries, such as the energy sector and palm oil. We engage with these industries directly through client relationships, stakeholder meetings and active participation in groups. For instance, our participation in the RSPO enables us to engage with multiple stakeholders connected to the palm oil value chain in the hopes of enhancing our leverage and improving the collective effort of those connected to particular commodities or risks. While in recent years banks have come under increasing pressure to disclose specific findings related to client projects, we are bound by legal requirements and business ethics related to confidentiality that limit our ability to disclose such information without client consent. Addressing requests for transparency will continue to be a balancing act between protecting the confidentiality of our clients information and disclosing infor-mation to stakeholders as appropriate to advance the protection of human rights. In 2019, we responded both informally and in writing to a variety of human rights inquiries regarding our financing activities and our general due diligence practices. These inquiries came from nongovernmental organizations such as BankTrack, the Business and Human Rights Resource Centre, the Investor Alliance for Human Rights and the Sierra Club. Reporting Mechanisms for Stakeholders Our Ethics Hotline provides a way for our employees, suppliers and other external stakeholders, including the general public, to report concerns about uneth-ical behavior to Citis Ethics Office. This includes human rights-related issues such as workplace harassment, violations of supply chain standards or concerns over project financing activities. Stakeholders and whistleblowers can report violations to the Ethics Hotline using a 24-hour phone line, email address, fax line, website or physical mailing address. In addition, for certain qualifying proj-ects, we apply the Equator Principles to assess and manage environmental and social risks. The EP framework includes an assessment of the project sponsors stakeholder engagement process, as well as its operational-level grievance mech-anisms for affected communities to raise concerns proactively with the project developers. 68globally, continued executing on multi-year strategies to meet our 2020 goals, and began looking ahead to our next set of operational goals, which we will announce in 2020. Also, in recognition of the connection between environmental sustainability and employee well-being, we continued implementing improve-ments in our workspaces and encourag-ing employee wellness initiatives. 2020 Goals We are currently tracking progress against our third generation of opera-tional footprint goals our 2020 goals, which we first announced in 2015. These goals cover energy use, water consump-tion, recycling, waste and green building, and, in 2017, we announced a goal to use 100 percent renewable electricity to power our facilities globally by 2020. In 2018, we achieved three of these goals two years early, and during 2019 we made progress in all the areas we measure. We continue to work toward achievement of all six goals and are on track to reach at least five of them by the end of 2020, as expected. While our strong focus on water has enabled us to surpass our 2020 goal for total water use reduction, our goal to use reclaimed or recycled water for at least 10 percent of our water consumption has proven more challeng-ing. We are continuing to push forward in this area and identify more places where the use of reclaimed or recycled water is a viable option. In 2019, we continued to make progress against our goal to source 100 percent renewable electricity across Citis global operations. We own or lease more than 50 million square feet of real estate across 7,700 properties in 95 countries. It is complex to secure renewable electricity in many of these markets, especially where renewable electricity resources are less developed, where we have a smaller presence or where we do not directly source electricity for our operations. In order to meet our ambi-tious goal, we have established power purchase agreements (PPAs) in Mexico and the U.S.; secured utility green supply contracts in the U.S. and the UK and other parts of Europe; and are obtaining energy attribute certificates in the form of renewable energy certificates (RECs), international RECs, and guarantees of origin that support voluntary renewable electricity markets across each of our operating regions. We also use on-site power when feasible, though it makes up a small portion of our overall renewable portfolio. We have already completed the work necessary to power our North America facilities with renewable elec-tricity beginning in 2020. During 2019, we made progress across our Asia Pacific and Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) regions as well, so we will be able to meet our goal of sourcing 100 percent renewable electricity for all our facilities by the end of 2020. In connection with our renewable electricity commitment, Citi is a member of RE100 a global initiative led by the Climate Group and CDP, which are both part of the We Mean Business coalition. Detailed data showing progress toward all of our 2020 goals are included at the end of this section. Our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and environmental data are verified and assured by SGS, a leading third-party inspection, verification, testing and certification company. For our SGS Assurance Statement, see the Assurance section. 71Citi Hong Kong Sustainability Initiatives and Recognition During 2019, we established an agreement with CLP Power Hong Kong Limited and The Hongkong Electric Company, Limited, to purchase renewable energy certificates equating to a combined 300,000 kilowatt hours (kWh) of renewable electricity from local sources, including solar and wind power. To further reduce our environmental impact we are considering the installa-tion of solar panels on the rooftop of Citi Tower in Hong Kong. These efforts will help us reach our 2020 goal to power our facilities with 100 percent renewable electricity. Our Citi Tower facility in Hong Kong also participated in the 2019 Carbon Challenge orga-nized by Dow and the U.S. Green Building Council. Carbon reduc-tion initiatives included an energy audit, centralized temperature control, and automated shutdown of air conditioning and lighting during hours when people are not typically in the building. These efforts reduced energy consumption by more than 2,100 metric tons (mt) of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e) during the one-year challenge. Our sustain-ability efforts in Hong Kong were recognized with awards from a number of organizations during 2019, including China Light & Power, the International Facility Management Association and the World Green Organisation. 73 In 2019, we opened a new operations facility in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, for which we achieved LEED Gold certification. Sustainable Building Principles in Action Whether undertaking new construction or renovating existing buildings, we prioritize efficiency and sustainability to minimize the environmental impact of our facilities across the globe. As part of our energy reduction efforts for our facilities in North America, we are retrofitting our branches, offices and operations centers with LED lighting. As of the end of 2019, 9.4 million square feet, representing 89 percent of the square footage of our offices and operations centers, had been retrofitted. We have also completed lighting retrofits at 378 banking branches with an additional 144 to be completed in 2020. We expect this retrofit, once complete in 2020, to reduce our energy consumption related to lighting by up to 50 percent. Switching to LED lighting also helps improve the overall quality of lighting and reduces maintenance costs. The renovation of our global headquar-ters in New York, for which we were awarded LEED Platinum certification, is on track to be completed in 2020. During construction, approximately 98 percent of all concrete, steel and glass demolition material was transported to recycling facilities, where it was converted back into new building products. With this renovation, we are installing water- conserving plumbing fixtures, enhancing the green space outside the building and implementing systems to improve indoor air quality. Water retention tanks on the buildings roof will capture 2 million gallons of rainwater annually, which we will use to irrigate plants on the build-ings plaza and terraces. In addition, our cogeneration plant, fueled by natural gas, will produce heat and electricity on-site, reducing the buildings carbon footprint by 34 percent. This significant, multiyear undertaking has been a driving force in solidifying our approach to sustainable building principles and a catalyst for theimplementation of efficiency projects throughout the global footprint of our facilities. These sustainable building efforts, among others, support our goal to have 33 percent of our real estate portfolio LEED-certified by the end of 2020. Efficient Travel Options We encourage employees to use video and web conferencing technologies rather than traveling, whenever possible. When business travel is unavoidable, we ask employees to group trips together to manage costs and reduce the number of trips taken, and we offer employees the option of train travel whenever feasible. Many of our offices are centrally located near public transportation, which reduces the need for employees to drive to work. To encourage the use of these options and reduce the impact of employee commuting, we offer U.S.-based employ-ees pre-tax dollars to cover the cost of commuting by subway, bus, train, ferry and vanpool. We also offer bike storage and bike racks at a number of facilities and sponsor bike share programs, known as Citi Bike Program, in New York City, Jersey City and Miami. At our car park in the London Citigroup Center, we offer a dozen charging stations for those driving electric vehicles. Business travel and employee commuting are reported as part of our Scope 3 emissions data. Transparent Reporting of Operational Climate Impacts Employees in Colombia Champion Sustainable Transportation In 2016, Citi employees in Bogot, Colombia, launched the Citi Mobility program, which focuses on transportation solutions that benefit the environment, the company and the city. The program provides the banks employees with rapid, safe and convenient ways to get to and from work. As of the end of 2019, it has led to more than 46,000 carpool-ing trips; more than 7,300 trips by bicycle; and more than 3,900 commutes by walking. Efforts like these earned the program first place in the 2019 Sustainability Challenge sponsored by Try My Ride, a company committed to promoting sustainability mobility. The Citi Mobility program was judged to have done the most to reduce CO2 emissions, improve quality of life for employees and promote sustainable mobility during the one-month challenge. Citi Colombia was also awarded a Gold Quality Seal by Bogots Secre-tary of Mobility in recognition of the high-quality, secure bicycle parking at the facility. Citi reports our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions in both this annual Environmental, Social and Governance Report and in our CDP response. We began reporting on the direct environmental impacts of our oper-ations in 2002 and have submitted data to CDP every year since 2003. We follow the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard and Scope 2 Guidance for measuring and reporting both market-based and location-based Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. We also report Scope 3 CO2 emissions from employee air and train travel and project-financed thermal power plants in this Environmental, Social and Governance Report, and we report Scope 3 electricity transmission loss and employee commuting data to CDP. In early 2020, Citi received a score of A from CDP on our climate change disclo-sure and an A-for supply chain reporting, for 2018 data. 74world. In 2019, these Green Teams held 223 volunteer and educational events, resulting in 16,200 volunteer hours dedicated to helping communities. In 2019, two of our Green Teams received recognition for their sustainability efforts. In Jacksonville, Florida, the local Green Team received the Jacksonville Environmental Protection Boards Environmental Achievement Award in the large business category. Costa Ricas Green Team received an Ecological Blue Flag award, which recognizes local efforts that promote conservation and development. In addition, in recognition of Earth Day, Citi Green Teams and other colleagues organized environmental and sustainability events during the month of April. Each year, our company participates in the World Wildlife Funds Earth Hour. In March 2019, nearly 2,800 facilities in 98 countries turned off the lights between 8:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m., local time. Citi has participated in this event for 12 consecutive years. Responsible Sourcing Citi seeks out suppliers that share our values and our commitment to having a positive impact in the communities where we operate. We set high standards of performance for resource use and supplier practices across our global supply chain. Citis Supply Chain Development, Inclusion and Sustainability team works with procurement leaders across the company to support diversity in supplier selection, build the capacity of diverse suppliers, implement sustainable supplier initiatives and mitigate environmental and social risks in our supply chain. The team champions inclusive and sustainable processes and practices as they engage with Citi employees responsible for the supplier selection process. This includes a focus on engagement with women-owned businesses in developing countries, increased due diligence related to human rights, including issues of modern slavery, and further integration of environmental sustainability priorities into business policies. For more information about our approach to human rights, see the Human Rights section. In 2015, Citi identified three focus areas as part of our Sustainable Progress Strategy: paper and paper products, information technology hardware and e-waste disposal, and travel and logistics. We have developed position statements that recommend actions for each of these areas and incorporated them into our supply chain Global Operating Procedures. In 2019, we continued engag-ing employees and making progress in these areas, including: Performing an analysis of our printers Communicating the benefits of pur-chasing EPEAT-certified products to employees who purchase items for their teams Reinforcing the importance of sustainable practices in contractual language for our technology hard-ware suppliers that align with EPEAT Supplier Policies We have developed standards and poli-cies to support our efforts and clearly communicate our expectations to suppli-ers regarding environmental and social issues, including the following: The Citi Statement of Supplier Principles outlines the aspirational guidelines that anchor our sustain-able supply chain initiative, including those related to ethical business practices, human rights in the workplace, environmental sustain-ability, management systems and implementation. The Citi Requirements for Suppliers, formerly known as Citi Standards for Suppliers, facilitates supplier compli-ance with contractual requirements and other key Citi policy obligations. Suppliers are also asked to abide by the Citi Statement on Human Rights. In addition, Citi complies with the UK Modern Slavery Act and releases an annual transparency statement summa-rizing our approach to identifying and mitigating the risks of modern slavery in our operations and supply chain. Supplier Engagement and Evaluation We use a Corporate Responsibility Questionnaire (CRQ) to evaluate suppliers adherence to our Statement of Supplier Principles. The CRQ helps us gauge how well suppliers manage a range of issues, such as environmental management, human rights, labor prac-tices, diversity, and health and safety. For example, the CRQ for our EMEA region includes specific questions to help identify and contribute to eradicating child labor and modern slavery, including forced or bonded labor and human trafficking. We plan to implement these questions across other regions in coming years. Integrating these important issues into our CRQ and our broader work to address the issue of modern slavery is part of the way Citi supports SDG 8, which aims to promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. In particular, our work in this area addresses target 8.7, which includes a mandate to eradicate forced labor, end modern slavery and human trafficking and end child labor in all its forms. SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth Given our global footprint, we rely on a strong network of Global Champions Citi colleagues around the world who serve as connections between their busi-nesses and supply chain sustainability and diversity efforts to help implement 77sustainable supplier initiatives locally and adapt the CRQ to local cultures and business norms. We also translate the CRQ into 14 languages to make it easier for suppliers to complete and to enable productive follow-up conversations. Our goal is for suppliers to complete the CRQ every two years. If a suppliers CRQ score is below 70 percent, we communi-cate our concerns and ask the supplier to take action to improve and submit a new CRQ the following year. We have rolled out the CRQ to more than 30 percent of our suppliers and are focusing on imple-mentation with our top 100 suppliers based on spend. In 2019, 16 percent of our top 100 suppliers scored 70 percent or lower on the CRQ. We meet with suppliers that fall below the 70 percent threshold and outline steps together to improve these scores within the year when they resubmit. Additional training and face-to-face dialogue has proven to help suppliers quickly address any issues flagged related to their CRQ responses and align to Citis expectations. If the necessary improvement is not achieved within that year, we escalate review to determine whether the contract should be discontinued. In addition, to ensure a consistent approach and understand-ing of the CRQ process and supplier evaluation, we provide training for our employees. We also provide sustainability training and education to suppliers. Supplier Diversity Our Supply Chain Development, Inclusion and Sustainability team sets clear supplier diversity goals and embeds them in our supplier selection processes. In addition, we provide U.S. small businesses and women-, veteran-, disability-, LGBT+- and minority-owned firms with access to business opportunities, education, mentoring and training. Working with a range of supplier-focused organizations, we identify diverse suppliers, including small businesses that can meet our supply chain needs, help build these suppliers capacities and support supply chain diversity and inclusion more broadly. These organizations include the National Minority Supplier Development Council and several of its global affili-ates, the Womens Business Enterprise Council, the National LGBT Chamber of Commerce and WEConnect International. We also engage with UN Women and the Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council, an organization dedicated to sustainable purchasing efforts. For every bid over $250,000, we require the inclusion of diverse suppliers in the bidding process. This requirement ensures that diverse suppliers are consid-ered not only for small engagements but for large ones as well. As the result of a technology upgrade that began in 2018 and continued into 2019, our enterprise supply chain employees were provided 2019 CRQ Implementation Among Top 100 Suppliers 87% 12% North America N/A N/A Latin America* 14 languages in which the CRQ is available Arabic English French German Hungarian Italian Japanese Korean Portuguese Russian Spanish Turkish Simplified Chinese (China) Traditional Chinese (Taiwan) * During 2019, none of our suppliers in Latin America were within the top 100 by spend. 78 CRQ Surveys Completed Suppliers Scoring 70% or Lower 100% 33% Europe, Middle East and Africa 100% 21% Asia PacificCiti Innovation Labs: A Decade of Innovation Understanding the needs and expectations of our customers in relation to technology is a longstanding tradition for Citi. In 1975, the rise in popularity of ATMs prompted us to establish a research center exploring consumer behavior and interactions with these machines. From there, our interest in how technol-ogy both influences customer expectations and has a positive impact on their experiences with our bank has only grown. In 2009, we opened our first Citi Innovation Lab in Dublin, Ireland, with the aim of understanding how advancements in technology would impact our clients expectations as well as our business models and treasury operations. In the decade since, our Innovation Lab model has evolved to keep pace with technological advancements, the direction of our business and the needs of our clients. We started with a single lab that operated independently from our business and was focused on Citi-oriented solutions. Today our Innovation Lab network has grown to five labs globally. Not only are these labs now more integrated with our core business enabling greater innovation throughout our organization they also partner with fintech firms to bring new solutions to scale from concept through execution. In the last 10 years, technological innovation has led to new ways of doing business as well as completely new business models based on e-commerce, connected systems and real-time dynamics. The two-way channel between our labs and our business enables collaboration and a free exchange of ideas, helping us find cutting-edge solutions and often co-creating with our clients to address the unique challenges they face. As we move forward, our Labs are considering how business models will change in the coming years as demographics shift, the needs and activities of our clients evolve and technology continues to develop at a rapid pace. Citi currently has Innovation Labs in England, Ireland, Israel, Mexico and Singapore. services. Since 2010, Citi Ventures has invested in more than 40 startups and has helped to pilot or commercialize more than 60 percent of those startups within Citi. The teams current portfolio includes companies that are leading the way in investment platforms, digital infrastruc-ture, fintech, commerce and payments. In addition to investing in startups, Citi Ventures advances innovation through three complementary focus areas. Through our D10X program, we empower our employees to build, test and launch new solutions that are exponentially better for our clients. This approach helps us accelerate learning and bring more certainty to where we should or should not invest resources. Our Emerging Technology team monitors new solutions that offer the greatest potential to transform the lives of people, businesses and com-munities. Working closely with Citi colleagues and the external innova-tion ecosystem, we learn, engage and experiment. This is critical as we look to upskill our workforce and prepare both our employees and our clients for the next decade. Our Studio team, which launched in 2018, collaborates with Citi colleagues internally and engages with the broader, external digital innovation ecosystem to understand the macro trends affecting economic vitality for people, businesses and cities and to incubate solutions. The team identifies areas where Citi can drive change and help communities thrive, specifically looking at the future of work, inclusive entrepre-neurship and city competitiveness. Through these efforts and others across Citi, we collaborate on breakthrough ideas that originate outside of our company and support innovation from 87within thereby incubating new solutions and products that support our mission of growth and economic progress. Empowering Financial Security and Strengthening Communities In 2019, Citi Ventures invested in, built and launched a range of products and services that improve financial security for consumers and support community development. One such investment is Digit an app that analyzes users spend-ing habits and helps them save money. Digit connects to an individuals checking account and uses advanced algorithms that look at historical transaction behav-ior and use predictive technology to determine the optimal amount of money to save each day. It then automatically moves that money into a separate account. This automation helps users better understand their financial health and save money without thinking about it so they can reach their goals and feel more financially secure. The Citi Ventures team partnered with Digit in 2019 to help them build their business and scale their solutions. Similarly, Citi Ventures D10X program supported an internal team of employees to develop a solution that helps consum-ers track their spending and manage their finances. This app called Beacon by Citi tracks everyday expenses such as eating out, buying coffee, taking taxis or buying groceries and then provides customized activities based on each persons spending habits to encourage behavior change. Both Digit and Beacon by Citi are available to everyone via the App Store and Google Play, regardless of whether they are Citi customers. In addition to tools that help individuals manage their personal finances, we also contribute to solutions that support the financial health of entire communities. In 2019, we launched City Builder by CitiSM, a data-driven platform for investors and funds to explore place-based investments, 88 Accelerating the Identification of Assets for Green Bonds Green bonds are debt instruments whose proceeds go toward financing or refinancing projects that meet certain environmental or climate-aligned criteria. One challenge of green bonds is that they require companies to identify new projects or green assets on their balance sheets for the bonds to fund. This is often a slow, manual process, which can discourage large companies from attempting to secure green bonds. In 2019, one of our employee-led D10X teams developed and piloted a new plat-form in partnership with Microsoft that uses machine learning to automate this time-intensive process rapidly scanning balance sheet data to identify potential green assets and suggesting financing or refinancing structures. This cloud-based service also has the potential to help institutional investors and asset managers track their green bond investments, learn more about their portfolio and provide impact reporting. After successful internal tests, Citi is exploring piloting the service with public-sector clients, including develop-ment banks. We will use insights from the pilot to refine and improve the plat-form, with the goal of making green bonds a more accessible option for companies and large issuers with extensive or complex balance sheets.and initiated a recruitment program with womens colleges, beginning with Wellesley College. In addition to engaging with universities in Canada, the UK and the U.S., we expanded the program into Asia for the first time with the addition of Singapore Management University. Approximately 1,800 students from more than 70 universities have participated since CUPID was established. Learn more about our efforts to recruit diverse talent in the Talent and Diversity section. Building Digital Acumen The Future of Jobs Report 2018 from the World Economic Forum offers a broad overview of how the Fourth Industrial Revolution is affecting the global workforce and an analysis of how the labor market will take shape leading up to 2022. Among other findings, the report asserts that to meet the future needs of their organizations, businesses must support the reskilling and upskilling of their current workforces (beyond just those employees already performing in-demand jobs). Furthermore, the report found that as the workforce changes rapidly, the window to proactively manage this change is closing. Unfortunately, rather than embracing this window of opportunity, many employers are focusing their upskilling efforts on a narrow set of already highly skilled, highly valued employees.1 In this context of a rapidly changing world and a workforce that is transform-ing along with it, Citi is providing our employees with access to resources that help them build digital skills, enabling them to take advantage of oppor-tunities within our company. Through the online platform Degreed, we offer employees learning pathways on digital awareness and digital acumen. These curated collections of resources including courses, videos, articles and other tools help employees gain an understanding of the digital world and provide insight into the latest technology trends, how they impact Citi and what our company is doing in response. The resources cover a wide range of topics, including machine learning, artificial intelligence, cryptocurrency, extended reality, and agile and robotic process automation. Employees can complement this coursework by joining an online collaboration community where they share knowledge and best practices with their colleagues about the skills required for the future of work. In addition, our Citi Ventures Emerging Technology team engages with stake-holders inside and outside of Citi to understand technological breakthroughs on the horizon. The team uses this knowledge to push Citis collective under-standing forward and develops learning packs to educate Citi employees about next-generation technologies, opportunities within the current market and how their skills could be used in the future. Customer-Centric Solutions The success of our business depends on balancing the needs of all our customers. This means that while we maintain our physical branches and analog processes for our customers who depend on them a sizable and important portion of our customer base we are also investing in and advancing digital solutions, which we see as our biggest opportunity for future growth. Our Global Consumer Banking business has reshaped itself in recent years to become even more customer- centric, with a focus on digital solutions that meet customers where they are and respond to the ways they want to engage with us. A growing number of customers expect digital innovation that provides ease and convenience in accessing finan-cial information and empowers them to manage their money responsibly. Empowering Customers Through Digital Platforms As more of our customers embrace mobile technology, we have evolved to a mobile-first strategic focus. Some of the most recent updates to our mobile banking app provide practical, convenient solutions that empower customers to avoid fraudulent activity on their accounts. For instance, customers can use the app to report lost or stolen ATM and debit cards and track replacement cards, all while monitoring their transac-tion history for fraudulent activity. They can also use the geolocation of their mobile phones to gauge their proximity to their credit cards during point of sale transactions, which reduces the likelihood that a genuine transaction will be inter-rupted due to a mistaken fraud alert. Secure, streamlined solutions are also important for connecting with new customers and expanding offerings to our 1 World Economic Forum, The Future of Jobs Report 2018 (Sept. 2018), pages v, vii and 23, 90existing customers. In 2019, for example, we became the first bank in Poland to use biometrics to make credit card and loan application processes more efficient for our customers. The technology enables automatic income verification and remote confirmation of a clients identity using facial biometrics. And in Mexico, Citibanamex customers now have a quick, secure, digital option for opening accounts in branches nationwide. In both cases, these technologies reduce wait time for customers, contributing to positive customer satisfaction. Further, the increased integration of digital tech-nologies in our processes increases the accessibility of our products and services for those unable to visit a branch. We are also developing solutions to serve our institutional clients who are embrac-ing mobile technologies. The CitiDirect BE Mobile app is a digital solution for our institutional customers that enables a secure, convenient way to authorize payments, view balances and cash positions and manage users. Throughout 2019, we expanded access for clients across many countries in Latin America and the Caribbean, enabling the use of fingerprint or facial recognition to access the platform. Designed in partnership with clients, these biometric solutions enable authentication in mere seconds and serve as an alternative method for secure access to their accounts. We are introducing the app and biometric authentication capability in additional markets throughout the region. Developing Solutions with Customer Feedback Citi identifies customer satisfaction as one of our most material ESG issues. We know that we exist to bring value to all of our stakeholders, including our customers. Monitoring their feedback and addressing concerns is vital to our success as we seek to deliver value and empower customers with tools that help them thrive financially. To this end, we The Future of Digital, Customer-Oriented Banking digital competitors in a 2019 report from Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions (Citi GPS) entitled Bank X: The New New Banks. Despite rapidly emerging technol-ogies, legacy banks can be bogged down with siloed data, manual processes and outdated technology. In order to meet our customers expectations, we must reinvent banking, aided by digital solutions and with customer experiences and expectations at the center of the model. Read more about the oppor-tunities banks have to embrace partnerships and disruptive technol-ogies to transform themselves into Fast-Tracking Solutions to Support Financial Well-Being Launched in 2018, the Citi Open Innovation Challenge was a five-week virtual program that challenged applicants to answer the question: How can Citi empower customers to manage their debt and improve their overall financial wellness? During 2019, selected applicants participated in the Citi FinTech Integration Program, where they received mentorship to develop their ideas on an accelerated path to commercialization with Citi, as well as practical tools and lessons they can apply to work with other large organiza-tions. The seven fintechs selected to participate represent a wide variety of solutions to help promote financial wellness, including debt repayment, management of household finances and more. actively engage with customers, listen to concerns and take direct action based on feedback. Citi takes an agile approach to under-standing the customer experience, and we use a range of inputs, including customer feedback, to prioritize improve-ments across our businesses. Through the use of customer survey input, quantitative metrics such as product use and Net Promoter Score, and the identification of pain points through multichannel monitoring (including social media, phone, chat and email), we are able to take corrective action, drive improvements and prioritize product enhancements that are important to our customers. 91Designing for Accessibility As we strive to put all customers at the center of what we do, we recognize the importance of providing products and services that meet accessibility needs and preferences. We offer Braille and talking ATMs, large print and Braille statements and raised-line checks for the visually impaired. We also offer TTY or Text Telephone for the hearing impaired. Many of our services are provided in multiple languages to support the diverse populations we serve, and our products are tailored to meet the needs of the individuals in the countries where we do business. Our global Disability Affinity group deepens employees understanding of the appropriate etiquette and language to use when interacting with people with disabilities. During 2019, the Affinity created an employee user group to help us test our current assistive technologies, so we can identify problem areas and work with our external technology part-ners to develop applications that are fully accessible. Beyond individual features, technologies and services, when we think about the best way to serve those in the disability community, we also consider other factors and issues that intersect with disability and must be overcome to advance financial inclusion and empowerment. In 2018, we worked with the National Disability Institute and the City of New York to launch Empowered Cities a national initiative to improve financial access, stability and opportunity for low-income people with disabilities and their families. Building on that effort, in 2019 we participated in a convening of commissioners from 10 mayoral offices and disabilities-focused leaders to explore how we can address the most-pressing financial security issues facing the disability community. Gatherings like this help us to expand financial inclusion for people with disabilities, both through #1 in Customer Satisfaction In 2019, the American Customer Satisfaction Index rated Citibank the #1 retail bank for customer satisfaction. We led national banks in the areas of perceived value, customer loyalty and retention and call center satisfaction, among others. We also earned the top spot in Business Insider Intelligences U.S. Mobile Banking Competitive Edge Study, due to the customer- centric features available in our mobile app. In 2019, for example, we tackled the top customer complaint that we receive at Citi branches: wait time. Teams across Citi partnered together, tapping into the expertise of employees in Independent Compliance Risk Management, Legal, Finance, Global Consumer Banking, Global Public Affairs, Human Resources, and Operations and Technology to solve this problem for our customers. The result is our Digital Appointment scheduling a seamless, simple-to-use tool that enables branch customers to use Citi Online or the Citi Mobile App to schedule visits that are convenient for them. Because the scheduler uses real-time availability pulled from bankers calendars, customers can count on branch employees being ready to meet their needs when they arrive. 92support for financial education as well as in the design of truly inclusive products and services. Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer Information As digital solutions expand and become more integrated into our daily lives, we see increasing concerns related to privacy and security breaches. Data security and privacy are top priorities for Citi and for our stakeholders and are among our most material ESG issues. Information Security Citis Chief Information Security Office (CISO) Program combines information gathering and data analysis with foren-sics to inform strategic decisions. Our approach rests on having the right tech-nology, systems, policies, processes and talent in place to prevent, detect, respond to and recover from cyber threats quickly. Our CISO Program is accredited by the British Standards Institution, and we are the first major financial institution to have our program ISO certified. The program is also regularly examined by regulators, as well as by internal and external auditors. The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors oversees the development, implementation and maintenance of our CISO Program. The program is managed by the Chief Enterprise Infrastructure Operations & Technology Officer and the Chief Information Security Officer on a global enterprise basis; the Chief Executives of each business sector and region are responsible for implementa-tion and compliance with program proce-dures and requirements. Annually, we provide our employees with training on how to properly handle personal informa-tion and how to maintain the security and Perspectives & Solutions (Citi GPS) explores cyber risk for governments, infrastructure systems, corporations and individuals. The report advocates for a move away from reactive, defen-sive approaches and toward a proac-tive, intelligence-led risk management strategy. It also provides foundational guidance for how to move in that direction. Managing Cyber Risk with Human Intelligence Technological advancements enrich our lives and empower us with interconnectedness, access to information and increased effi-ciency. Unfortunately, those same positive attributes can be exploited by those who carry out cyberat-tacks on individuals, corporations and governments. It is estimated that cyber breaches cost the global economy $1.5 trillion per year, and this is expected to increase, with some sources believing it could cost the global economy $6 trillion by 2021.2 In a 2019 report entitled Managing Cyber Risk with Human Intelligence: A Practical Approach, Citi Global privacy of information when working with companies that provide services to us. To safeguard information in our own operations and for our clients, we invest in, develop and use advanced technol-ogy. For instance, the Citi Virtual Card Account provides a secure, business- to-business digital solution for large workflows through the generation of unique, nonplastic account numbers. The virtual card technology enables real-time transactions that are automated and secure, safeguarding against fraud and potential misuse. The card eliminates the need for paper-based payments but still leaves an electronic trace, which allows for easy reconciliation and reporting. During 2019, we also announced the Citi Payment Outlier Detection solution. This technology uses analytics, artificial intelligence and machine learning to find transactions that dont align with typical patterns of activity. These outliers can then be investigated to determine whether they indicate fraud. Citi conducts regular information secu-rity risk assessments and has internal controls to defend against information security breaches. We have stringent poli-cies and employ robust technologies to protect our data and systems, supported by a strong team with deep expertise. Our CISO team protects information from data breaches and misuse by maintaining strong networks to protect our systems and databases, but we remain vigilant as 2 Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions, Managing Cyber Risk with Human Intelligence: A Practical Approach (May 2019), page 3, 93feedback, viewed with a demographic lens, helps us better understand where we need to focus. Our Diversity Priorities Pay Equity In the U.S., women make less than men, and women of color take home less than white women. Worldwide, women hold only about one-third of corporate lead-ership positions. Businesses have been working for decades to advance gender equality in the workplace, but progress has been slow and results disappointing. At Citi, weve pushed ourselves beyond our comfort zone not just to acknowl-edge the stark realities laid bare in the statistics around pay equity, but also to recognize the social and cultural forces that produced them. We are being open about our data, what it means and what needs to be done to meet our goals. In 2019, we disclosed that, on an adjusted basis, women globally are paid on average more than 99 percent of what men are paid at Citi, and there was no statistically significant difference in adjusted compensation for U.S. minori-ties and nonminorities. Following our review, we once again made appropriate pay adjustments as part of our annual compensation cycle. We also made a decision to be transpar-ent about a statistic that our CEO has described as disappointing and ugly: our unadjusted or raw pay gap1 for women and U.S. minorities. The analysis showed that Citis median pay for women globally is 71 percent of the median for men and that the median pay for U.S. minorities is 93 percent of the median for nonminorities. An updated analysis released in early 2020 found those numbers had moved slightly, but in the right direction, to 73 percent for women and 94 percent for U.S. minorities. For our company, the data reaffirms the importance of goals we announced in 2018 to increase our representation of women and U.S. minorities in senior and higher-paying roles at Citi. (See more on page 98.) We know that is the only effec-tive way for us to meaningfully reduce our raw pay gap over time. 1 The raw pay gap is the difference between the median pay for all female employees and the median pay for all male employees at Citi, and the difference between the median pay for minorities and nonminorities, not accounting for differences in factors such as job function, level or geography. Radical transparency certainly makes you uncomfortable, but its important to get out of the old habits. Youve got to shake your thinking up and do something differently, and thats why it makes a difference. Jane Fraser, who was promoted in 2019 to President of Citi and Chief Executive Officer, Global Consumer Banking Raw Pay Gap Data Citi was the first company to disclose the aggregate measure of total compensation (i.e., all men vs. all women, all U.S. minorities vs. all U.S. nonminorities) across all employees regardless of role. Equal Pay Median Pay Better Representation Firm-Wide Representation Goals Pay Equity Women vs. Men U.S. Minorities vs. U.S. Nonminorities 2018 2019 71% 73% 93% 94% + Mid-and senior- level female talent globally to Mid-and senior- level Black talent (U.S. only) to 40% 8% by 2021 by 2021 = Increased Representation of women and minorities in higher-compensated roles to help close the raw pay gaps 97Our work to address both pay measures is continuous, and the pace of change is likely to vary from year to year. As people come in and out of the firm, as our colleagues are promoted and as market dynamics change, these reviews serve as important measures of how were doing on our commitment to pay colleagues equitably for their work and of the prog-ress were making to increase diversity at more senior levels at Citi. Representation Goals We have set representation goals to increase diversity across the firm and have focused our efforts on three key areas: targeted recruitment, development and retention, and promotion paths and processes. At a minimum, by the end of 2021, we plan to improve the representa-tion of women in assistant vice president to managing director level roles to at least 40 percent globally, up from 37 percent when we set the goals in 2018, and to boost the representation of Black employees in those same roles in the U.S. to at least 8 percent, up from the 6 percent 2018 baseline. Senior leaders at Citi were involved in the development of the goals and are now measured on their progress against them, just as they are for other business priorities. As we work toward these goals, we are gaining valuable insight into the internal and external roadblocks that can make growing the pipeline of diverse talent and expanding diversity at senior levels challenging challenges that are shared across many industries. As we learn, we are able to implement changes that ensure we sustainably move the needle on our diversity metrics while supporting representation across all diverse groups globally. Some have raised concerns that increas-ing the focus on diversity and inclusion runs contrary to the idea of creating a true meritocracy. However, the myth of meritocracy is that a level playing field, where there is equal opportunity for all to succeed, already exists. But, the most recent data from the National Center for Education Statistics shows that women make up 47 percent of people receiving graduate degrees from U.S. business schools. Yet the percentage of women who run Fortune 500 compa-nies declined in 2018 to 4.8 percent, down from 6.4 percent the prior year. Such outcomes reinforce how deeply rooted and systemic these challenges are. Advantages are available to some because of their socioeconomic, academic or cultural background, and reflecting a true meritocracy requires that we eliminate the imbalance of women and minorities in our workforce by working to actually level the playing field. These representation goals, as well as other work we are doing around gender equality in the workplace, directly contribute to SDG 5 in support of gender equality and empowering all women and girls. Specifically, we are enabling progress toward target 5.5, which aims to ensure womens full and effective participation and equal oppor-tunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life. SDG Goal 5: Gender Equality Inclusive Leadership We engage our colleagues in creative ways to help them understand the importance of inclusive leadership at Citi and address unconscious bias and workplace micro-inequities head on. We kicked off 2019 with our second annual Together at Citi: Building an Inclusive Culture event in which our CEO and our Affinity group leaders engaged employ-ees in a robust discussion on inclusive leadership, transparency and belonging. This session was complemented by four regional sessions on building an inclusive culture that were led by senior executives and Dr. Binna Kandola, co-founder of the business psychology firm Pearn Kandola. In these sessions, which engaged 8,500 colleagues, participants heard anecdotes from real employees about their personal experiences with micro-inequities and the impact those experiences have had on them in the workplace. Participants also learned strategies for building awareness of and mitigating micro-inequities. In addition, we trained more than 4,500 hiring managers and Human Resources colleagues to recognize and call out potential unconscious biases in their people decisions. We have created inter-active sessions to recognize common unconscious biases and hold one another accountable to calling these out when we see them. In July, New York University School of Law Professor Kenji Yoshino presented his research on covering i.e., down-playing our outsider attributes in order to blend into the mainstream at Citis New York headquarters. Professor Yoshino argued that we should find common ground in our desire to be authentic Shared prosperity will not be achieved in the absence of a strong commitment, coming from the top, to equal pay for equal work and equal representation in positions of seniority. It cannot be achieved if our colleagues, no matter their position within an organization, dont work in an environment where they feel like they belong and are free to contribute their talents to reach their full potential. Michael L. Corbat, CEO 98Citi rang the closing bell at the New York Stock Exchange in recognition of Pride Month and the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall uprising in New York City. We also replaced the red arc of our logo with a rainbow in solidarity. LGBT+ Equality and Rights We recruit the best talent and give them opportunities for success and mobility. This explicitly includes ensuring that LGBT+ candidates and employees have access to a safe, inclusive and diverse workplace. In order to do that, we must confront unconscious biases and make certain that our policies are inclusive for all. have reaffirmed our commitment to stand with the millions of people in America who identify as transgender or gender nonbinary or who are intersex. Through this public demonstration of support, we aim to encour-age others to treat people who are part of this community with the respect and dignity they deserve. In 2018, we expanded our new global badging policy to enable our transgender colleagues to more easily change the name on their Citi identification badge. Citi was a founding member of the Stonewall Global Program and continues to work with other organizations advancing LGBT+ rights, including the Human Rights Campaign, Out Leadership and Out & Equal. Also, we were awarded the highest score on the Human Rights Campaigns LGBTQ Corporate Equality Index for the 15th consecutive year. See the Communities section to learn about our work to support inclusion through our partners. know they are here, that they are welcome and that management wants to understand how their identity impacts their experience working at Citi. By understanding the demographic makeup of our employees, we will be better able to make strategic decisions around recruitment and develop-ment. In 2019, we continued to expand the demographic questions in our Voice of the Employee survey, including those on sexual orientation and gender identity, to 39 coun-tries, reaching 82 percent of our employee base. We plan to expand similar voluntary self-ID in our human resources profiles. We are a signatory to the Human Rights Campaigns Business Statement for Transgender Equality and are proud to In 2019, we became a signatory to: The Business Coalition for the Equality Act, to support federal legislation to provide the same basic protections to LGBT+ people as are provided to other protected groups under federal law; and A U.S. Supreme Court amicus brief in support of workplace LGBT+ protections under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Working in partnership with the Human Rights Campaign and other advocacy groups, Citi joined more than 200 companies to send a powerful and unequivocal message in support of LGBT+ equality. 101 Citi operates in many countries and jurisdic-tions where LGBT+ rights are not yet legally and socially accepted. We recognize the challenges faced by the community and our colleagues in some of these countries. We are committed to ensuring that the rights of all LGBT+ employees are fully respected, covered by Citi policies and reflected in the diversity of our workplaces. We have expanded insurance and other benefits available under our U.S. policies to LGBT+ partners globally wherever the benefits are legal and permitted under local law, such as in Brazil, Hong Kong, India, Mexico, Singapore and Taiwan. In addition to designating a spouse through marriage or civil partnership, employees are able to designate a partner of any sex as an eligible family member. We recognize that employee benefits are critical to ensuring equality and mobility for our colleagues. Citi views self-identification as a strategic priority for our diversity and inclusion efforts, including for our LGBT+ employees. More and more companies are embracing self-ID as a way for diverse employees to raise their hands to be counted and acknowledged. We believe that self-ID communicates to our employees that weTargeted Recruiting We have a clear goal at Citi to become more representative of the clients, customers and communities we serve. Its smart business the best way to compete and be reflective of the value we place on diversity. But we will never make progress increasing the representation of female and minority talent at all levels of the firm without focusing on how we bring new colleagues into Citi. Our goal is for our analyst and associate programs to include 50 percent female colleagues globally and 30 percent Black and Hispanic/Latino colleagues in the U.S. Female representation in full-time analyst and associate roles globally increased from 35 percent in 2018 to 45 percent in 2019. Likewise, women in summer analyst and associate roles have increased from 42 percent to 47 percent over the same time period. In the U.S., our Black and Hispanic/Latino representation has increased from 14 percent in 2018 to 18 percent in 2019, with our summer representation increas-ing from 17 percent to 26 percent over the same time frame. For managing director and director level hires, we continue to ensure diverse slates, including at least one woman in our interviews for global hires and at least one woman or racial/ethnic minority in our interviews for U.S. hires. In 2019, 68 percent of interview slates for manag-ing director and director roles included at least one diverse candidate. In addition, we utilize trainings and technology designed to help us leverage our hiring process to drive greater diver-sity, including interview training for all recruiters and hiring managers and new sourcing platforms. Campus Recruiting Campus recruiting is imperative to establishing Citi as an employer of choice among early-career professionals. 107 Our Early Insights Programs target fresh-men and sophomores, focusing on iden-tifying, mentoring and hiring top diverse talent for summer analyst programs across the firm. These programs, provide early exposure to and education regard-ing Citis businesses, technical training, mentorship and Citis culture. Freshman Discovery Day is a two-day exploratory program that helps edu-cate underrepresented minority col-lege freshmen on the various roles in financial services. After the program, participants are paired with a mentor from Citi and have the opportunity to participate in recruiting activity. Approximately 40 percent of the HBCU Innovation and Leadership Symposium In 2019, we held our inaugural HBCU Innovation and Leadership Sympo-sium, which brought together 85 first-and second-year students from 21 historically black colleges and universities for an introductory experience focused on helping them understand financial services, gain technical skills and kickoff the career planning process. The two-day immersive experience gave participants an opportunity to network with other HBCU students from across the U.S. and participate in workshops to share and discuss the rich experiences of professionals at Citi. The symposium provided an overview of topics such as career preparedness, entrepreneurship and personal financial management. While we would like the students to consider the possibility of a future with Citi, our primary goal was to provide them with helpful tools on their path to professional success, without regard for industry or profession. The symposium not only allowed us to build relationships with individual students, but strengthened our engagement with their universities as well a key priority as we work to expand the network of institutions from which we pursue talent.We offer a broad range of firm-wide global development programs and empower business leaders to create employee programs that are tailored to the unique needs of their organizations, because a one-size-fits-all approach to development will not foster diversity at senior levels. Moreover, we want to reinforce a spirit of innovation among our leaders, allowing them to test new approaches that will better enable our firm to figure out what works and what doesnt. In the last few years, business leaders have piloted a range of programs, primar-ily focusing on mentorship, leadership development and skills development. In each case, programs are designed to provide access to senior leaders, foster community support and meet employees where they are in the development process helping them understanding their own unique skills and building their personal brands. Learning and Evaluation Providing our employees with access to quality learning resources is critical to enhancing their ability to perform in their current roles and prepare for future opportunities. In 2019, we provided train-ing to all Citi employees. We offer flexible solutions that enable learning when, where and how it is most effective for employees, and we continue to expand our program offerings. As we enhance these offerings, we are working to formally capture employee feedback on programming to better understand the impact on employees and the potential for further enhancement. Digital Learning In order to help our employees learn in a rapidly changing world, we offer Degreed, an online platform that delivers infor-mation on the topics employees want to learn about, from artificial intelligence to Addressing the Needs of New Managers As a new generation begins managing for the first time, Citi has been refreshing the preparation and support we provide to help them succeed in their new roles. In 2019, we hosted design thinking sessions to help us better understand the needs of new managers. Through eight, one-day sessions around the world, we brought together 150 new managers from different backgrounds and countries to identify common challenges and develop creative solutions. The challenges participants identified included the need for a better way to connect to peers to share best practices; a desire for more easily accessible tools to address management questions; and a demand for digital resources that curate the most relevant information new managers need as they transition to their new roles. Based on our findings, we have launched a new program called Welcome to Citi Management that brings together new managers to address these shared challenges in an interactive, participant-driven format, and provides them with a digital placemat that puts a range of essential resources at their fingertips. cybersecurity to effective communication skills. Employees can choose from a series of recommendations that can be personalized for each individual. In 2019, more than 120,000 employees accessed Degreed, with leadership and data analyt-ics among the skills most frequently added to individual profiles. Training for Advancement We provide a range of internal develop-ment and rotational programs for leaders at all levels, and we continue to evolve those learning programs to meet new needs. Our Global Consumer Operations programs help high-performing employ-ees build the skills needed to transition to manager and supervisory roles, and 80 percent of participants have been promoted or are on a promotion path. Our Global Associate Learning Initiative is a nine-month training program aimed at Institutional Client Group employees at the associate level a critical mile-stone early in an employees career. The program, which combines digital learning with in-person training, prepares the next generation of Citi leadership for the future of banking. In 2019, we hosted 450 global associates (representing 40 countries and 50 cities) at our New York headquarters for the inaugural event. Evaluation Employees receive formal feedback from their managers through midyear and year-end reviews. Our two-rating system evaluates employee performance against their goals and assesses their leadership through the lens of our Leadership Standards. Citi also encourages employ-ees and their managers to create indi-vidual development plans that consider the skills, strategic training opportunities and behaviors needed to enhance current performance and prepare for future roles. These plans are created as part of midyear and year-end reviews, and employees are able to use digital and in-person training resources to execute their development plans and enhance their skills. Beginning in 2019, all Citi employees have the ability to request feedback from and provide feedback to colleagues in real time, while managers can also ask for feedback on team members throughout the year. In addition, more than 2,700 managers who participated in training programs received a 360-degree perfor-mance review, which is designed to help identify opportunities for development. 1092019 to help increase the pipeline of minority lateral hires. Through this program, senior Citi managers increase their network of potential talent, in part by meeting with high-potential talent before there is a job opening. When there is an opening, internal referrals complement recommendations from the Citi alumni network and search firms, and Citi maintains contact with candidates, including those who are internal, through a cadence of in-person and virtual check-ins. We also maintain an employee nomina-tion guide for managers, which can be used to help identify employees for open roles, development programs, special assignments and promotions. The guide aims to reinforce effective practices for fair, balanced and inclusive promotion decisions. Workforce Well-Being Maintaining a culture of well-being for our employees is critical to our success. We continually evaluate the tools and policies available to maintain the well-being of our global workforce. Work/Life Balance Citi realizes the importance of being flexible on how, when and where work gets done. We have a variety of programs that help employees balance their work and life, including both formal and infor-mal remote work arrangements and flex schedules. Providing opportunities for flextime, compressed workweeks, job sharing and reduced schedules improves employee satisfaction and retention while increasing productivity. Our Minds at Citi initiative aims to destig-matize and address issues of mental health. While specific resources can vary by country, we provide access to free and confidential counseling and life coaching sessions. The program enables employ-ees to seek support for a wide range of personal issues, such as stress, relation-ship conflicts and financial challenges, as well as workplace challenges, such as communicating with managers and dealing with organizational change. In the UK, Australia and New Zealand, we offer mental health training to help managers recognize when employees may be expe-riencing issues that impact their mental health and to provide guidance on how to respond and offer support. We are working to expand such efforts to the U.S. As we strive to create a culture in which everyone feels supported and valued, we recognize that mental well-being and physical health must both be supported. In 2019, we started offering enhanced mental health benefits for employees and their families, including telemedicine- based behavioral health options, on-site mental health professionals at our largest locations, and Sleepio, a behavior modification therapy program designed to build better sleep habits and improve mental health. And, through our learning and development efforts, we offer oppor-tunities to learn about mental health and strategies for helping others who might be affected. In the U.S., our on-site medical clinics provide healthcare, free preventative screenings and health promotion programs, immunizations and pre-travel health guidance to all employees. These initiatives help employees and their families achieve their health goals through resources that are free, easy to use and available to employees whether or not they are enrolled in a Citi health plan. Our Live Well Rewards program in the U.S. enables employees and their spouses or partners who are enrolled in our medical plans to earn up to $450 ($900 for a couple) in Live Well Rewards just for practicing healthy behaviors such as tracking their exercise, participating in biometric screenings or taking an online course in how to lose weight or start an exercise program. More than 57,000 employees in the U.S. earned Live Well Rewards in 2019. Rewards are offered in the form of gift cards to popular retailers. Our locations in the U.S. and Mexico are tobacco-free. We also offer a Health Advocate program in the U.S., separate from insurance programs, to aid employees in resolving insurance claims, accessing medical specialists and addressing their health needs and those of their families. We also consider how our buildings can affect our employees. From providing ergonomic furniture to managing air and acoustics, we strive to create an environment that supports the well-being and productivity of our employees. Learn more about how physical space impacts employee well- being in the Operations and Supply Chain section. Also, our Save Well plans guide our employees in building financial stabil-ity and saving for retirement, and we offer a tuition reimbursement option for certain employees going back to school. Citi Benefits and Family Life Supporting employees in their family life is an important part of workforce well- being. We believe all parents deserve time to adjust to parenthood and bond with the newest members of their fami-lies. Thats why we recently expanded our Paid Parental Leave Policy to include Citi employees around the world. The new policy, which began rolling out in early 2020, applies to every kind of family and includes a new parental paid leave minimum everywhere we operate. At a minimum, all Citi employees will be eligible for 16 weeks of paid maternity leave and four weeks of paid parental leave. Maternity leave applies to all birth-ing parents while parental leave covers all nonbirthing parents, regardless of gender or type of birth (e.g., adoption or surrogacy). Employees working in countries that offer longer periods of paid leave time will continue to maintain their benefits. 111We recognize that our parental leave benefit only adds value if our employees actually take the time that is offered to them. We know that some new parents may be reluctant to take time off after adding to their families, and we aim to foster a culture that supports employees in making this decision. We also offer employees discounts for dependent care, and we provide a new parent program for both men and women as they navigate the transition to parent-hood. In addition, we offer the Bright Horizons Special Needs program, which provides online resources for parents in the U.S. with special needs children and subsidized dependent care when work-|related issues disrupt regular schedules. We also offer a college coach to help families and their children navigate the post-secondary education admissions process. In addition, we have policies for employees who require paid time off for reasons such as military or medical leave. Volunteerism We offer our employees resources and tools to volunteer in the communities in which they live and work, and, in turn, our employees are proud to contribute to helping individuals and families thrive. In 2019, Citi employee volunteers contrib-uted more than 1 million volunteer hours in communities around the world. Our colleagues used their professional skills, expertise and time volunteering with community organizations to support a range of projects, from traditional hands-on activities to skills-based volun-teering. These employee engagement efforts with community organizations often complement financial support from Citi and the Citi Foundation. To help encourage employee engagement in communities, every active and qualified Citi employee is entitled to one paid day each year to volunteer with an eligible nonprofit organization of their choice. While Citi employees volunteer year-round, Global Community Day, our annual day of service for employees, friends and family, is an important way in which we collectively deepen relationships with our communities. In 2019, 120,000 volunteers participated in more than 1,500 events held in 400 cities across 90 countries. Since the inaugural Global Community Day in 2006, Citi volunteers have contributed more than 4 million hours of service to projects in hundreds of cities. We also track how Global Community Day events are helping to advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Fair Employment Practices We strive to maintain an environment in which opportunities to develop are widely available, where people are hired and advanced on their merits and where our employees treat each other with respect. We are fully committed to equal employment opportunity and comply with the letter and spirit of all laws regarding fair employment practices and nondiscrimination. For more information on fair employment practices, see the Human Rights section of this report as well as our Code of Conduct. Compensation We offer competitive salaries based on our Compensation Philosophy, which outlines our five primary objectives (see box on on page 113). Our approach to compensation includes ensuring that entry-level employees receive compet-itive wages within the industry, and in June, we raised our minimum wage in the U.S. to $15 per hour. We also offer employees the opportunity to take advan-tage of formal or informal flexible work arrangements, including part-time work and job sharing. We conduct a robust annual review of compensation, which includes multiple layers of reviews of compensation recommendations and pay equity anal-ysis. Learn more about our pay equity analysis. Executive Compensation We compensate our executives fairly, based on individual and company performance, competitive benchmarking and support of our Mission and Value Proposition. Our Proxy Statement contains a scorecard with each named executive officers financial and nonfinancial performance goals, which are approved by the Boards Personnel and Compensation Committee. We seek to design our executive pay program to motivate balanced behaviors consistent with our focus on long-term strategic goals. For example, diversity and inclu-sion, including increasing the represen-tation of women and U.S. minorities, and ethics and culture are incorporated into senior executives scorecards, which are a factor in remuneration. Citi incorporates shareholder and stakeholder input on executive pay into our Compensation Philosophy. We apply our Compensation Philosophy through our Executive Compensation Framework, which enables incentive compensation awards to closely reflect our pay-for-performance approach. Discrimination and Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Citi strictly prohibits any form of unlawful discrimination or harassment, as set forth in our widely disseminated and consis-tently enforced policies. Employees who believe they have been discriminated against or harassed are encouraged to report any incidents that violate Citis pol-icies to their managers, another member of the employees management chain, Human Resources, or the Ethics Hotline. 112Citi employee participating in Volunteer Africa in Kenya Service and Skills Among our volunteer opportunities, we provide immersive experiences that serve as valuable professional and personal development for our employees and important retention tools for Citi. They also contribute to our commitment to engaging with the communities where we live and work. These opportunities include the following: CariClub: Since 2017, CariClub has been helping Citi bankers engage with their communities and develop leadership expe-rience by serving on nonprofit associate boards. Through this external resource, more than 80 Citi colleagues are now serving on an associate board or have joined a young professionals committee, and an additional 80 colleagues will be working through the process in 2019. Citi offers the program to employees who have been with the firm for three to seven years. Most participants are between the ages of 25 and 35. Service Year: Through a partnership with Service Year Alliance, select first-year Citi analysts in New York City who have accepted a full-time offer have the oppor-tunity to defer that offer for one year to work in a strategic role at a nonprofit of their choice. With a guaranteed return to Citi after their year of service, partici-pants contribute their skills and expertise to supporting their communities while honing skills that will prove valuable in their careers at Citi. Since the programs inception in 2016, 32 Citi colleagues have participated. iMentor: Since the launch of our Pathways to Progress program in 2014, the Citi Foundation and iMentor have worked together to equip high school students with the tools to succeed academically and prepare for post-secondary education and career opportunities. In addition to the Foundations grant funding, more than 130 Citi employees across the U.S. served as mentors in 2019, helping to develop college and career aspirations, assist with the college application and financing process and coach mentees throughout their post-secondary academic years. Volunteer Africa: Launched in 2016, Volunteer Africa connects microentrepre-neurs in Africa with Citi employee volun-teers from select areas of our business. In 2019, 24 junior bankers spent five weeks in Kenya supporting 16 high-potential entrepreneurs to help grow their businesses and create much-needed jobs in the local community. The entrepreneurs are also able to pitch for investment from Citi through a dedicated fund established by the bank. Research on previous entrepreneurs partic-ipating in the program in Kenya found that, on average, entrepreneurs experienced a 41 percent increase in income and a 53 percent increase in profit nine months after completing the program. One Young World: As part of the One Young World program, select Citi employees participate in a six-month mentorship program with young social entrepreneurs from Yunus&Youth, an organization that promotes social entrepreneurship by connecting business leaders with the next generation of social entrepreneurs. Participants also attend the annual One Young World Summit, where they debate, formulate and share innovative solutions for the worlds most pressing issues and bring these ideas back to their work- places. In 2019, alumni of the program convened a panel of senior executives to bring awareness to Citis efforts around the Sustainable Development Goals. An additional 43 colleagues participated in the program in 2019. 113training and development opportunities, employee engagement initiatives and communications from our senior leaders. In doing so, we reinforce that our employ-ees must apply our values and principles every day to everything they do, wher-ever Citi operates. their responsibility to adhere to our core values while leading by example, being accountable for their decisions and esca-lating actual or potential misconduct. The Code emphasizes that, when in doubt, employees should always err on the side of escalation. misconduct, providing information on the various resources available to them to do so. Code of Conduct training is provided to new hires globally on a rolling basis, as well as to nonemployee contingent workers who are performing services for Citi. We ask our colleagues to ensure that their decisions pass three tests: They are in our clients interests They create economic value They are always systemically responsible Code of Conduct Citis Code of Conduct outlines the standards of ethics and professional behavior expected of employees and representatives of Citi when dealing with clients, business colleagues, share-holders, communities and each other. It also provides an overview of key legal and regulatory requirements and select global policies. The Code applies to all directors, officers and employees of Citi worldwide. In addition, individuals performing services for Citi may be subject to the Code by contract or agree-ment. To best serve our global workforce, the Code is published in 21 languages and is publicly available on our Investor Relations website. Updated in 2019 and approved by our Board of Directors, the Code of Conduct is fundamental to fostering our culture of integrity. Our Code illustrates how members of our workforce can make ethical decisions using a decision-making guide that identifies key criteria through which a proposed choice or course of action should pass in order to align with the tests contained in our Mission and Value Proposition and our Leadership Standards. It reinforces for employees Upon joining Citi, employees must acknowledge that they have read and will comply with the Code. Violations of the Code can result in disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment. We ask employees to periodically reaffirm their commitment to comply with the Code through Code of Conduct training. The training is required following the issuance of an updated Code of Conduct. As such, new training was launched for all employees in early 2020. The training serves as an essential means to connect Citis values and principles to expected employee behaviors and conduct. Through the use of hypothet-ical work-related ethical scenarios, the training is designed to help employees make ethical decisions by having them apply to common workplace situations the principles in Citis Code of Conduct, Mission and Value Proposition, applicable laws and Citi policies. The training also emphasizes employees obligation to promptly report actual or suspected Voice of the Employee As part of Citis annual Voice of the Employee survey, an initiative to gather feedback from our employees, we include an Ethical Culture Index. This index measures five items: Comfort with reporting unethical prac-tices without fear of reprisal A feeling of accountability to identify and escalate issues Confidence that Citi will act upon reported legal or ethical violations A belief that colleagues act with integrity Manager encouragement of ethical conduct even in the face of pressure Index results have held steady for several years, with 89 percent responding posi-tively to the index items in 2019, the same as in 2018. Staying on Top of Your Ethical Game In 2019, we launched Ethical Fitness, a global campaign led by our executive management team to provide Citi colleagues with the equipment they need to get in their best ethical shape. A series of seven modules that incorporate senior leader videos, storytelling and manager support gives employees the opportunity to practice consistently making the right ethical decisions. The first module, launched in December, focused on the factors that contribute to unethical decision-making, to help employees identify, anticipate and build resilience to these influencing factors. The campaign will continue through 2020. 116contacts and investigations are treated as confidentially as possible, consistent with the need to investigate and address the matter and subject to applicable laws and regulations. Concerns may be raised either anonymously or with attribution, subject to applicable laws and regula-tions. Further, Citi prohibits any form of retaliation against anyone who raises a concern or question in good faith or who participates in a subsequent investigation. Employees who engage in retaliation against a colleague because he or she raised a concern or question in good faith, asked for a reasonable accommodation, reported a violation or was involved in an investigation are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment or other relationship with Citi. Each year, the Citi Ethics Office provides to all employees a summary of the types of concerns received through the Ethics Hotline, to show the use of Citis Ethics Hotline process and demonstrate that raising concerns to the Citi Ethics Office leads to meaningful action within our organization. Examples of such action can include disciplinary actions against individual employees and nonemployees; the termination of vendor relationships; referrals to the appropriate law enforce-ment or governmental authorities; communications to our workforce; addi-tional training for employees and nonem-ployees; changes to Citi policy, business processes and procedures; and control enhancements. Industry Collaboration We have made a concerted effort to partner with key stakeholders on ways that we can collectively improve the culture of the banking industry as well as corporate culture overall. In 2019, for example, Citi was one of 181 companies whose chief executive officers signed the Business Roundtables new Statement on the Purpose of a Corporation. As a signa-tory, our CEO committed to lead Citi for the benefit of all stakeholders: customers, Reinforcing Our Commitment to Ethics from the Top Globally, senior Citi leaders have been reinforcing the importance of ethical decision-making. In Mexico, our largest consumer market outside of the U.S., and in multiple other countries in Latin America, our senior executives and colleagues engaged in a yearlong campaign to promote ethical decision-making and escalation across the organization. Through a senior leadership town hall, internal communications, manager trainings and monthly surveys to validate learning, we worked to foster a collaborative environment in which colleagues feel comfortable talking about ethical dilemmas and asking for advice about how to deal with challenging situations. A similar effort was rolled out in six countries in Asia Pacific, with approximately 7,000 employees participating. Citi Country Officers, who are responsible for leading the business in each market, and their management teams led interactive, face-to-face workshops for employees. By considering how individuals may be able to rationalize unethical behaviors, employees engaged in thought-provoking discussions that allowed them to better identify these rationalizations and effectively mitigate them. Similar sessions will be rolled out elsewhere in 2020. The Ethical Fitness Campaign, launched at the end of 2019, will help to reinforce these efforts. employees, suppliers, communities and shareholders. Also in 2019, Citis Chief Innovation Officer and head of Citi Ventures partic-ipated on a panel at the Federal Reserve Bank of New Yorks annual workshop on culture and behavior, discussing the impact of new technologies on culture in the workforce. Citi is also a member of the Banking Standards Board (BSB) in the UK. Together with more than 30 other member firms, we support the BSBs independent role to help rebuild trust and confidence across the UK banking industry by promoting high ethical and professional standards for behavior and competence. We remain engaged with the BSB directly through our UK senior management. Our Chief Country Officer for the UK has been a BSB board member since its inception. Managing Compliance Risk Our ICRM team helps to drive a culture of ethical conduct at Citi by establishing poli-cies, programs and procedures that guide and support our employees in making ethical decisions and adhering to appro-priate standards of conduct. Through an integrated compliance risk management framework, this group protects Citi by setting standards; providing guidance, training and advice to our businesses regarding compliance risk; and driving ownership and accountability for manag-ing compliance risk in accordance with Citi standards across the firm. Managing compliance risk is the responsibility of all of our employees and requires not only adherence to applicable laws, regu-lations, policies and relevant standards of conduct but also the promotion of 118Leadership Standards Accountability Our culture is not just who we are and what we believe; its how we act in small, everyday moments. We encourage all employees to demonstrate the behaviors of our Leadership Standards, which are the measurable skills, abilities and knowledge that all of us at Citi should exhibit to be successful leaders. Holding ourselves and each other to these high standards is part of our culture and our commitment to operating in our clients best interests, driving economic value and minimizing risk. We expect managers to lead by example and inspire their employees to live Citis val-ues. Every manager is responsible for creating a work environment free of discrimina-tion, harassment and retaliation. As role models, managers reinforce the importance of following our Leadership Standards, Code of Conduct and Mission and Value Propo-sition, as well as encourage employees to raise any concerns about potential legal or ethical issues. Managers also ensure concerns are properly resolved or promptly escalated through appropriate channels, promote awareness of all resources available for reporting concerns and neither engage in nor tolerate retaliation of any kind. annually and in our Code of Conduct, which summarizes our Anti-Bribery Policy. Citi complies with all applicable anti- bribery laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and the applicable local anti-bribery laws of the countries in which we operate. Our Anti-Bribery Program Statement expressly prohibits bribery in any form for our employees, as well as our suppliers. We have written policies, procedures and internal controls designed to comply with anti-bribery laws. We conduct an annual bribery risk assessment of all global business lines. The risk assessment addresses many areas of risk, including gifts and entertainment, hiring practices and third-party relationships. We provide our staff with anti-bribery training annually and supplement it with targeted training and communications as needed. We give staff multiple ways, including the Ethics Hotline, to escalate business behavior and activity consistent with the values and conduct expecta-tions outlined by our Mission and Value Proposition, Leadership Standards and Code of Conduct. Through the work of a range of teams focused on Citis anti-corruption efforts including Anti-Bribery, Anti-Money Laundering (AML), Sanctions and the Ethics Office we work to counteract the many and varied threats of corruption facing the financial sector. Citis global Compliance organiza-tion is headed by our Chief Compliance Officer, who reports directly to our CEO and provides regular reports on the performance of the compliance program, including in regard to Anti-Bribery, Anti-Money Laundering and Sanctions, to our Board of Directors or a committee of the Board, as appropriate. Anti-Bribery Program We continually enhance our Anti-Bribery Program with respect to the areas outlined in the Citi Anti-Bribery Program Statement which is updated at least 119 bribery-related concerns and to prompt investigations, where necessary. Sanctions Program Citi conducts business and operations in compliance with applicable sanctions, laws and regulations, including those of the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. We maintain a robust, risk-based ICRM Sanctions Program that applies globally and is commensurate with our global footprint. As a financial institution organized in the U.S., Citi and our subsid-iaries globally comply with applicable U.S. sanctions requirements, among other requirements. Our enterprise-wide Sanctions Program promotes compliance with increasingly dynamic sanctions requirements. The program includes policies and proce-dures, risk category statement and tolerance thresholds, enterprise-wide screening, annual risk assessments and audits of sanctions control processes, employee training and a diverse team of Compliance professionals stationed around the world. Anti-Money Laundering Program Citis AML Program works to protect our clients, our franchise and the global financial system from the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing. The program centers on: Prevention: Citis Global Know Your Customer Program is the cornerstone of our AML Program, enabling us to effectively evaluate the potential risks associated with each client relationship and ensure that we adhere to globally consistent policies and standards, customer risk scoring and onboarding.Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly We have policies and systems in place to make sure we are always treating custom-ers responsibly and fairly, as reflected in our Code of Conduct and our internal checks-and-balances processes when creating new products. Responsible Marketing We are committed to providing clients with the right products and services based on their needs, wants and pref-erences, while adhering to all internal policies and procedures as well as all banking laws and regulations. We take the time to understand the unique financial requirements of each client and offer only products and services that meet those needs. We work diligently to clearly disclose all of the features and terms and conditions, including applicable fees and charges, for the products and services offered so that clients can select and use the product or service best suited to them. As part of our customer-centric approach to communicating in a simple, straight-forward manner, our Global Consumer Banking Branded Cards business continues to deliver personalized videos to heighten customer comprehension of key topics. In 2019, we developed a cross-functional team to overhaul the videos across programs and formats to ensure that they are fully accessible to our customers, including providing real-time descriptive transcripts, embedding closed captions and ensuring content readability in line with Americans with Disabilities Act regulations. For new cardmembers, we updated our personal-ized welcome videos to encourage digital adoption and ensure that users have a clear understanding of features. For example, a personalized digital checklist was added to help users understand their digital self-service tools. We deliver innovative, powerful solutions for our customers to drive greater simplicity, convenience, control and insight. Digital and mobile are at the core of a simpler, better client and customer experience, and our ongoing enhance-ments to our mobile app helped us to achieve certification in 2019 from J.D. Power. Learn more about how we work to improve the digital experience of our clients in the Digital Innovation section. We also provide our customers with timely resources and information related to safety and security. Our U.S. online Security Center enables customers to learn about what Citi does to protect them and what they can do to protect themselves against identify theft and other security risks. Further, in an effort to contribute to eliminating gender bias in marketing, Citi is part of #SeeHer, a groundbreaking movement launched by the Association of National Advertisers (ANA) to eliminate unconscious bias against women and girls in advertising and media. Through this partnership, were collaborating with the ANA to increase the accurate portrayal of women and girls in media by 20 percent by 2020 and leverage our scale to influ-ence positive change. Through a related campaign, #SeeHerHearHer, we are using our influence to enable progress for gender equality in the music industry. Music plays a significant role in our television brand campaigns, and we now require the inclusion of female artists as part of the music search criteria for all TV spots. These initiatives are just some examples of our firm-wide commitment to ensuring that our activities are in the best interests of our clients. More broadly, new products are approved by cross-functional committees that include senior executives from Risk, Legal, ICRM and other relevant units, supported by specialists from Fair Lending, as needed. Citi marketing materials are reviewed by our Compliance and Legal departments to ensure that we communicate clearly and fairly and comply with applicable laws, regulations and Citi policies. These teams also provide periodic testing or monitoring of such materials and disclosures. Each relevant business maintains a complaints management program to receive and respond to consumer concerns. Treating Customers Fairly Through Citis commitment to Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) and our Global Consumer Fairness Policy, we strive to earn and maintain the publics trust by constantly adhering to the highest ethical standards in conducting our business. We aim to deliver products and services that provide value, clarity and dependability, guided by the TCF principles that define our standards for our products and services. The Global Consumer Fairness Policy provides a framework for reviewing consumer fairness concerns and a sustainable model for managing Citis Treating Customers Fairly Principles 1) Works as described Consumers can predict how products and services will work. 2) Appropriate Consumers can rely on Citi to offer appropriate products and services that meet their needs. 3) Value Consumers receive value that is reason-ably related to the cost of the products and services. 4) Ease of Understanding Consumers understand the terms and conditions of the products and services (particularly limitations and exclusions). 122we disclose our U.S. political contri-butions on our Corporate Governance webpage. That page also includes extensive disclosure about our practices pertaining to political contributions and lobbying activities, as well as a regularly updated list of our significant trade and business associations. Our disclosures and contributions are overseen by the Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee of our Board of Directors. Whats Ahead As consumers remain distrustful of insti-tutions in the wake of breaches of trust in numerous sectors, including banking, we must stay ever-vigilant to ensure we act with integrity and transparency in all that we do. This commitment starts at the top, and we will continue to focus on engag-ing senior executives to reinforce the importance of ethics and transparency for all employees. We will also continue to collaborate with others in our industry and beyond to address ethical and risk issues, such as illegal wildlife trafficking and bias in marketing. understanding of key discrimination risks and our approach to preventing discrimi-nation risks in our business strategies, as well as in our product and service design and delivery. customer transactions under which Citi will only engage in a transaction where there is a high degree of certainty that any tax aspects will be accepted by the respective taxing authorities. Taxation Policies and Standards Citi operates in nearly 100 countries and strictly abides by all tax laws in the U.S. and throughout the world. We are a current income taxpayer, both within and outside the U.S. Our tax profile is consis-tent with the locations of our business operations, and our review and escalation processes enable us to adhere to high standards of compliance with applicable tax laws. We emphasize strong internal controls and transparency with global tax authori-ties and share information relevant to our tax profile. We supplement this transpar-ency with additional country-by-country reporting, which is required under the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Developments action plan to address base erosion and profit shifting. Our tax policy is overseen by our Chief Tax Officer, who reports to the Chief Financial Officer. Tax policies and related matters are reviewed by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Citi complies with reporting and with-holding requirements imposed globally on financial institutions in connection with customer transactions that these institutions intermediate. We have imple-mented systems and processes to comply with the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, and we are in compliance with the Common Reporting Standard in all appli-cable countries where local implementing guidance has been issued. Similarly, we have a firm-wide policy applicable to Beginning in 2018, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 fundamentally changed the method of taxation of international income earned by Citi. We continue to apply the same consistent, transparent and responsible approach to tax compli-ance and governance outlined in this report. For more information on how taxation impacts Citi, see page 113 of our 2019 Form 10-K. Public Policy We engage directly, and indirectly through trade associations, with govern-ments and elected officials around the world to advocate for public policies that support the interests of our company, clients and employees in the countries and regions where we operate. Guided by our Political Activities Statement, which ensures compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, we promote policies and positions on issues such as trade, cybersecurity, data localization, tax and financial reforms. Our Government Affairs team members complete annual compliance training, conducted by outside experts, on campaign finance, lobbying and gifts/entertainment rules. Under U.S. Federal Election Commission rules, Citis Political Action Committee pools the voluntary contributions of eligi-ble employees to support U.S. political candidates and campaigns that support the financial industry and complemen-tary pro-business policies. This support allows us to take an active role in our countrys political process, promote our business goals and strengthen relation-ships with U.S. policymakers. Annually, 124GRI Standard Disclosure Number and Title Reporting Status Reference or Response Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Fully Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees Talent and Diversity 103-2 The management approach and its components Fully Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees Talent and Diversity > Our Diversity Priorities Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Fully Fully Talent and Diversity > Our Diversity Priorities Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices Talent and Diversity > Citis Global Workforce Board of Directors 2020 Proxy Statement page 29 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 Freedom of association and collective bargaining GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 Child labor GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Fully Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees 103-2 The management approach and its components Fully Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Fully Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk Fully Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Fully Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions 103-2 The management approach and its components Fully 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Fully Fully Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions Citi Requirements for Suppliers Citi Statement of Supplier Principles Citi Statement on Human Rights Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions We have not identified any operations as having significant risk for incidents of child labor. Our business overall is not at high risk because of the nature of work in the financial services industry. In addition, we do not directly source high-risk agricultural commodities, conflict minerals or any other raw materials, goods or services in significant amounts from suppliers in high-risk jurisdictions. 136United Nations Guiding Principles Reporting Framework Index We have included information and disclosures in this report aligned with the United Nations Guiding Principles reporting frame-work. This reflects our support of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and our commitment to transparency and accountability regarding our human rights-related activities and policies. The following table indicates where readers can find information that addresses the framework requirements, either in this report or other publicly available documents. Section of the Framework Report Section or Other Documentation Part A: Governance of Respect for Human Rights Policy commitment A1 What does the company say publicly about its commitment to respect human rights? A1.1 A1.2 A1.3 A2 A2.1 A2.2 A2.3 A2.4 How has the public commitment been developed? Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights Whose human rights does the public commitment address? Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights Citi Statement on Human Rights How is the public commitment disseminated? Ethics and Culture > Code of Conduct The following documents, which state Citis commitment to respect human rights and our expectations about the commitment of others, are posted publicly: Citi Code of Conduct Citi Requirements for Suppliers Citi Statement of Supplier Principles Citi Statement on Human Rights How does the company demonstrate the importance it attaches to the implementation of its human rights commitment? How is day-to-day responsibility for human rights performance organized within the company, and why? Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation Human Rights > Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing Digital Innovation > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer Information What kinds of human rights issues are discussed by senior management and by the Board, and why? How are employees and contract workers made aware of the ways in which respect for human rights should inform their decisions and actions? How does the company make clear in its business relationships the importance it places on respect for human rights? Human Rights > Our Salient Human Rights Risks Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees Ethics and Culture > Code of Conduct Citi Code of Conduct Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers and Partners Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing Citi Requirements for Suppliers Citi Statement of Supplier Principles A2.5 What lessons has the company learned during the reporting period about achieving respect for human rights, and what has changed as a result? Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers and Partners Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions Embedding respect for human rights 145ASSURANCE STATEMENT SGS REPORT ON CITIGROUP INC.s CITIS 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT, SECTION 2019 PROJECTS COVERED BY THE EQUATOR PRINCIPLES NATURE AND SCOPE OF THE ASSURANCE/VERIFICATION SGS was commissioned by Citigroup Inc. to conduct an independent assurance of the Citis 2019 Environmental, Social and Governance Report, section 2019 Projects Covered by the Equator Principles. The scope of the assurance, based on the SGS Sustainability Report Assurance methodology, included the data in accompanying tables, contained in this report. The information in the Citis 2019 Environmental, Social and Governance Report of Citigroup Inc. and its presentation are the responsibility of the directors and the management of Citigroup Inc. SGS has not been involved in the preparation of any of the material included in the Citis 2019 Environmental, Social and Governance Report. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the text, data, graphs and statements within the scope of verification with the intention to inform all Citigroup Inc. stakeholders. The SGS protocols are based upon the internationally recognized Assurance Standard ISAE 3000. This standard follows differing options for Assurance depending on the context and capabilities of the Reporting Organization. This report has been assured at a limited level of scrutiny using our protocols for evaluation of content veracity and the alignment to the Equator Principles III and the internal policies and procedures of Citigroup Inc. The assurance comprised a combination of pre-assurance research, interviews with relevant employees; documentation and record review and the evaluation of the report for the alignment to the Equator Principles III. STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing and verification, operating in more than 140 countries and providing services including management systems and service certification; quality, environmental, social and ethical auditing; sustainability report assurance and greenhouse gases verification. SGS affirms our independence from Citigroup Inc., being free from bias and conflicts of interest with the organization, its subsidiaries and stakeholders. The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualifications for this assignment, and comprised a Lead Assuror for Sustainability Reporting and Equator Principles, Lead Verifier in Greenhouse Gases, and Principal Auditor registered with IRCA (International Register of Certificated Auditors) in Environmental, Quality, Occupational Health & Safety, and Social Systems. ASSURANCE OPINION Based on the methodology described and the verification work performed on the Citis 2019 Environmental, Social and Governance Report, section 2019 Projects Covered by the Equator Principles, we did not observe any circumstance that made us believe that the information and data 154